
 
THIS RESIDENTIAL LEASE CONTRACT (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of the 11th day of August, 2022, by and between Owner of Residential Community ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, jointly and severally (hereinafter collectively "Residents"). Owner hereby leases to Residents the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"), for use exclusively as a private residence, and not for any other purpose. The Leased Premises may also include the rental of parking, storage and garage spaces, if applicable, which will be designated and included in a separate written agreement. Residents' performance of their obligations contained in this Agreement may be guaranteed by a third party. Any third party guarantee agreements will be included with and attached to this Agreement. All provisions hereof including without limitation all waivers, releases, and limitations of liability made by Residents hereunder shall benefit Owner's representatives, agents, affiliates, successors, assigns, employees, officers, and directors.
1.	OCCUPANCY OF THE LEASED PREMISES. The Leased Premises may be occupied solely by Residents. If any person other than the Resident or Occupant occupies the Leased Premises for more than ten (10)oscdGuestDaysInUnit consecutive days or fourteen (14)oscdGuestDaysInUnitTotal total days in any one (1)oscdGuestDaysInMonth month period, such person shall be deemed to reside in the Leased Premises in violation of this Agreement. Residents acknowledge that allowing unauthorized occupants to reside in the Leased Premises shall be deemed a material and incurable breach of this Agreement, and shall entitle Owner to exercise all remedies provided for hereunder including, without limitation, terminating this Agreement.
All changes in occupancy require Owner's prior written consent. If Owner consents to an occupancy change during the term of this Agreement, a new Residential Lease Contract or an amendment to this Agreement must be executed. Any assignment or subletting without Owner's prior written consent shall be void and may, at Owner's sole discretion, terminate this Agreement. Owner's acceptance of rent from any person, not identified as a Resident or an authorized occupant, shall be deemed to be the payment of rent on behalf of Residents and shall not constitute Owner's consent for said person to occupy or reside in the Leased Premises.
2.	TERM. This Agreement shall be for a fixed lease term of 1 year. The initial term ("Initial Term") of this Agreement shall begin on August 16, 2022 and end at 11:59pmoscdLeaseEndTime on August 15, 2023. Thereafter, this Agreement will automatically renew for successive month to month terms (each, a "Renewal Term") unless either party provides written notice that it will not renew at least sixty (60)oscdVacateNoticeDays days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or the parties execute a new Residential Lease
Contract.
3.	SECURITY DEPOSIT. Residents have deposited with Owner the sum of $500.00, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged as a security deposit. All or a portion of the security deposit may be retained by Owner in the event Residents become liable for any of the charges listed below. The retention of the security deposit shall not limit Owner's right to proceed against Residents for claims and damages exceeding the amount of the security deposit. If the security deposit is depleted for any reason whatsoever during the lease term, Residents agree to immediately replenish it.
Owner may recover amounts owed by Residents from the security deposit for any lawful reason including, but not limited to, the following: any damages or loss caused by Residents' or Occupants' default or breach of this Agreement; delinquent or unpaid rent; late fees; electricity, gas, water, sewer, stormwater, or other utility charges; damages to the Leased Premises caused by Residents', Occupants' or guests' negligence, intentional act, accident or inaction; the replacement cost of fixtures or other items contained in the Leased Premises that are damaged or destroyed; service charges; batteries for smoke detectors or other safety devices; unreturned, damaged or missing keys or entry devices; replacement light bulbs; reletting expenses; delinquent fees or unpaid deposits; the costs of rekeying or disabling unauthorized security systems and alarms; pet charges; government assessments against the Owner caused by Residents, Occupants or guests; trash removal; all costs associated with illegally parked vehicles, including removal; returned check fees; removal and storage of items left in the Leased Premises; all costs, including attorneys' fees, related to eviction proceedings or the enforcement of this Agreement. The security deposit shall not cover normal wear and tear. If the security deposit does not cover all of Owner's loss, Residents are liable for any unsatisfied amounts.
4.	RENT. Residents agree to pay to Owner, as rent for the Leased Premises, the sum of $1,275.00 per month. If Residents' tenancy initially commences after the first (1st) day of the month, Residents agree to pay $658.00, due August 16, 2022, as prorated rent for the first partial month. Except as otherwise provided, rent shall be paid in full and received in advance, with no grace period and without demand, on or before the 1st day of each month in the form of online payment via ACH or credit card, debit, personal check, certified check, or money order. Cash is not accepted.oscdRentPayMethod. Rent and all other sums due to Owner will be payable to 2810 W Jefferson Street Boise LLC, 2810 W Jefferson Street, Boise, ID 83702, (208) 343-0590. The usual days and hours when payments may be made personally are: By Appointment, 2810 W Jefferson Street, Boise, ID 83702. Payments made will not be held at the request of anyone - all payments made will be directly deposited. It is Residents' responsibility to be certain that each payment is actually received by Owner on or before its due date. Use of a rental payment drop box, if one is provided by Owner, is for Residents' convenience – the risk of receipt of funds by Owner when such box is used is Residents' risk, and not Owner's risk.
If in any month, rent is not paid before the 4th day of the month, payment must be in the form of certified check or money order. If Owner serves Residents with a notice to pay rent or surrender possession, which Owner may do on any date after the 1st day of the month, any payment tendered following service of said notice must be in the form of certified check or money order.
 4.1. First Payment. Residents shall pay the first month's rent on or before the date the Initial Term begins. Payment shall be in the form of certified check or money order. In the event Residents fail to pay the first month's rent, Owner shall be entitled to recover all damages suffered, including any future rent as it becomes due and other amounts subject to any mitigation of Owner's loss.
5.	LATE PAYMENTS AND FEES.	Owner and Residents agree that it is and will be impracticable and extremely difficult to fix the actual damages suffered by Owner in the event Residents make a late payment of rent, or when Residents make a payment that is subsequently dishonored by the bank, and that the below charges represent a reasonable approximation of the damages Owner is likely to suffer from a late or dishonored payment. Owner and Residents further agree that this provision does not establish a grace period of the payment of rent, and that Owner may give Residents a written notice to pay or quit the Leased Premises in accordance with State law at any time after the payment is due. Owner shall have all remedies under the law and this Agreement in the event Resident fails to timely pay the rent or other amounts owed. At Owner's sole discretion, Owner may report any delinquent rent or other amounts owed to a credit reporting agency.
 5.1. Late Payments.	Resident shall pay the total amount of rent owed on or before the 1st day of the month. If Residents fail to timely pay all rent, Owner is entitled to a late fee of $100.00 on the 4th day of the month.
 5.2. Dishonored Payments. Residents shall owe $75.00 for each dishonored payment plus any applicable late fees described in this Agreement until all amounts owed are paid. In the event of a dishonored payment, Residents may, at Owner's option, be required to pay the rent and applicable late charges by certified check or money order. If two (2)oscdNSFChecksNum or more payments submitted by Residents are, for any reason whatsoever, dishonored by the financial institution upon which it is drawn in any twelve (12)oscdNSFChecksMonth month period, Residents shall be required to pay all future rent and other charges by certified check or money order plus any and all costs required in the collection of said payments.
6.	PAYMENTS.	Owner is not obligated to accept any payment for rent or other charge after it is due. Except for rent, all charges are due immediately and to be paid upon Owner's demand. To the extent allowed by law, Owner first may apply payments received to any unpaid amounts other than rent, irrespective of any written or verbal requests by the Residents or when the charges may have accrued.
7.	RENT INCREASES. Owner will notify Residents of any increase in rent or Owner’s intention of non-renewal of this Agreement with thirty (30) days written notice. If the tenancy is month to month, Owner will notify Residents of any change in the terms of this Agreement (other than the change in rent or renewal status of the Agreement) with fifteen (15) days written notice.
8.	COMPLIANCE WITH RULES, LAWS, AND REGULATIONS. Residents hereby acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Residential Community's Policies and Rules (the "Rules"), which are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement. Residents agree that they and their Occupants and guests shall at all times to abide by said Rules in all respects and any failure to do so shall constitute a material default under this Agreement. Owner may make reasonable changes to the Rules with a thirty (30) day notice, and Residents agree to abide by such changes if they are distributed and applicable to the Residential Community and do not substantially modify this Agreement or change the rights of Residents. Failure to comply with the Rules shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement.
Residents agree not to harass, annoy, or endanger any other resident or person, or create or maintain a nuisance, or disturb the peace or solitude of any other resident, or commit waste in or about the Leased Premises. Residents are responsible for the conduct of any members of their household, Occupants, or guests while present at the Residential Community. Residents further agree not to harass, verbally abuse, denigrate or otherwise disrespect Owner's employees, agents and/or contractors or interfere with Owner's business operations. Failure to abide by this policy may result in the termination of this Agreement.
Certain acts are considered to be contrary to the safety, well-being, peace, and enjoyment of the other residents of the Residential Community, and therefore, will be considered to be a breach of this Agreement. These include, but are not limited to: 1) violations of this Agreement, the Rules, or applicable fire, safety, health, or criminal laws, ordinances, or regulations, regardless of whether or where arrest or conviction occurs; 2) Residents or occupants giving incorrect or false answers in a rental application; 3) Residents or any occupants being arrested, charged, detained, convicted, or given deferred adjudication or pretrial diversion for an offense involving actual or potential physical harm to a person, or involving possession, manufacture, or delivery of a controlled substance, or drug paraphernalia in violation of applicable law, or any sex-related crime, including a misdemeanor; and 4) any illegal drugs or paraphernalia are found in the Leased Premises.
9.	MULTIPLE RESIDENTS OR OCCUPANTS. Residents will be in material breach of this Agreement if any Resident, Occupant, or guest (whether invited or uninvited) violate any of the terms of this Agreement or the Rules. Residents are jointly and severally liable for all obligations arising under this Agreement whether or not they remain in actual possession of the Leased Premises. Notices or demands from Owner that are served upon any Resident, Occupant or guest are deemed validly served upon all Residents. Each Resident agrees and is deemed to be an agent for service of process for all other Residents in eviction proceedings. Security deposit deduction itemizations may be sent to one Resident, and shall constitute notice to all Residents. Owner may satisfy the duty to refund the security deposit by sending the total amount owed to one Resident.
 9.1.	Replacements and Subletting.	Without the prior written approval of Owner, which may be withheld in Owner's sole and absolute discretion, replacing Residents or subletting the Leased Premises is strictly prohibited. A replacement of Residents or sublease will be subject to the Owner's policies and underwriting requirements, reimbursement of Owner's expenses in connection with the replacement or sublease, and final approval by the Owner of the Residents' replacement or sublessee. Residents who are replaced or sublet the Leased Premises will continue to be liable for all of Residents' obligations of this Agreement. Replaced Residents' and Sublessors relinquish their rights to a refund of the security deposit, and their right to possess or otherwise occupy the Leased Premises. Any attempt to replace any Residents or sublet the Leased Premises without Owner's prior written consent will be void. Residents shall not assign this Agreement.
10.	USE OF LEASED PREMISES AND COMMON AREAS. Residents shall not do or permit anything to be done in or about the Leased Premises that will in any way obstruct or interfere with the rights of other residents or occupants of the Residential Community or injure or annoy them or use or allow the Leased Premises to be used for any improper, unlawful, or objectionable purpose. Further, Residents and Occupants shall not cause, maintain, or permit any nuisance in, on, or about the Leased Premises, or commit any waste in or on the Leased Premises, and shall promptly notify Owner in writing of any defective or potentially defective conditions, in the Leased Premises, or in the Residential Community. Finally, Residents shall not put the Leased Premises to any use that violates local zoning ordinances or any other law applicable to the Leased Premises. Residents agree to reimburse and indemnify Owner for all fines or other penalties incurred by Owner as a result of the violation of any statute, ordinance, regulation or other governmental restriction by Residents or any members of their household, Occupants, or guests. Nothing set forth herein shall be deemed as disallowing any use of the Leased Premises that cannot legally be prohibited.
Residents further agree to the following: 1) Residents must keep the Leased Premises and areas reserved for private use clean and sanitary; 2) trash must be disposed of at least weekly in appropriate receptacles; 3) passageways may be used only for entry or exit; 4) amenity areas must be used with care in accordance with the Rules and posted signs; 5) glass is prohibited in all common areas; 6) conducting business of any kind in the Leased Premises or the Residential Community is prohibited without Owner's prior written consent--any lawful business conducted at home by computer, mail, or telephone is permissible if permitted by local zoning ordinance and customers, clients, patients, or other business associates do not come to the Leased Premises for business purposes; 7) businesses allowed in a home by state or local statute or ordinance will be permitted with proper licensing and notification provided to the Owner in advance of the operation of the business; 8) Owner may exclude from the Residential Community guests or others, who in Owner's reasonable judgment, have been violating the law, violating this Agreement or any community rules, which includes anyone who is disturbing other residents, neighbors, visitors, or Owner's representatives; 9) Owner may also exclude from any outside area or common area anyone who refuses to show identification or identify themselves as a guest, occupant or resident in the Residential Community; and 10) Residents agree to notify Owner if Residents or any occupants are convicted of a felony, offense involving a controlled substance, violence to another or destruction of property or if any of the above register as a sex offender in any state. Any violation of these provisions shall be deemed a material and incurable breach of this Agreement and shall entitle Owner to serve Residents with notice terminating the tenancy.
11.	LEASED PREMISES AND FURNISHINGS. Residents acknowledge that Residents have inspected the Leased Premises and accept them AS IS. Residents acknowledge that the Leased Premises are in a clean and good condition including painted surfaces, carpets, flooring, all furniture, furnishings, fixtures, equipment and appliances. It shall be conclusively presumed that said Leased Premises and all items, appliances and fixtures contained therein are in good working condition, unless Residents deliver a contrary statement in writing to Owner prior to or on the starting date of this Agreement. Residents agree to diligently maintain the Leased Premises, be responsible for the proper care of any and all furniture, furnishings, fixtures, appliances and equipment therein, and to keep the Leased Premises in a good, neat and clean condition. Residents promise to return the Leased Premises and all furniture, furnishings, fixtures, equipment and appliances to Owner in the same condition at the time Residents vacate the Leased Premises as when first rented, less normal and reasonable wear and tear. Residents further acknowledge that the smoke detector and/or carbon monoxide detector is operable and it is the responsibility of Residents to maintain the smoke detector and/or carbon monoxide detector in accordance with law and the manufacturer's recommendations. Residents must promptly report non-functional smoke and/or carbon monoxide alarms to Owner so repairs can be made.
All appliances are installed per manufacturers' specifications and may be anchored. Residents shall not move, un-hook, or relocate any appliance connected to a gas/water source or floor drain connection at any time. If Residents notice any defects, dilapidations, dangerous conditions, or other needed repairs then Residents shall promptly notify Owner of the same via the service request form provided by Owner or by proper electronic notification to Owner as said conditions become evident. Such notification shall not shift any responsibility to Owner for items Residents are otherwise responsible for under this Agreement. Residents agree to immediately reimburse Owner for any sums incurred by Owner to repair the Leased Premises or any item, fixture, appliance or appurtenance damaged by the misuse or neglect of Residents or any members of their household, Occupants, or guests. This Agreement may not be terminated due to interruption of any service, including necessary repairs, beyond the control of the Owner.
 11.1. Freezing Weather Conditions. For the purpose of preventing broken pipes and other damages, Residents agree that for the duration of any freezing weather conditions, Residents will maintain the temperature of the Leased Premises at Sixty-five (65)oscdTemperatureMin degrees Fahrenheit, leave all closet and cupboard doors open (which allows more heat to reach pipes), and set all water faucets to drip. Residents will be liable for any damages that result from Residents' failure to perform the responsibilities listed in this Section. While Owner has no duty to remove any accumulation of ice, snow, or sleet outside the Leased Premises, Owner may perform such removal at Owner's discretion.
12.	UTILITIES. Owner agrees, at Owner's expense, to furnish the following utilities to the Leased Premises: NoneoscdUtilitiesOwnerLL. Residents agree to pay all charges (including utility deposits) not supplied by Owner, assessed by the utility provider (or Owner, or Owner's designated Billing Party) in connection with Residents' use of utilities during the term of this Agreement, or the period of occupancy by the Residents, whichever is longer. Residents agree to pay the utility bills for which they are responsible and ensure that utilities remain connected for the duration of the Initial Term or any renewal period. Residents shall properly use all electrical, gas and plumbing fixtures and appliances only for their intended purposes. Residents shall not install or operate any additional equipment or appliance, including, but not limited to, portable generators, additional refrigerators and freezers, a dishwasher, washing machine, clothes dryer or an air conditioning unit in the Leased Premises unless supplied by Owner or with Owner's prior written approval. Residents will be responsible for the following utilities: Water, Sewer, Trash, and ElectricoscdUtilitiesTenantLL.
Owner may modify the method by which the utilities are furnished to the Leased Premises or billed to Residents during the term of this Agreement. Owner shall not be liable for any damages directly or proximally caused by interruption or failure of utility service unless such interruption or failure of utility service is solely due to Owner's failure to pay to the service provider for the provision of such services to the Leased Premises.
Owner reserves the right, at any time a past due balance is owing on the utilities, to apply any and all funds received from the Residents, including funds paid as rent, first to the past due balance and then any remaining funds will be applied to Rent. Residents agree to this allocation of funds despite any limiting or restrictive endorsement contained on the payment. Further, if Residents fail to pay any utility charges that are to be paid by Residents, Owner may, at its option, pay such charges in full to retain continuing utility services and bill Residents such charges as additional rent together with the regular monthly rental payment on the 1st day of the month next following the date of such billing. When the Residents move from the Leased Premises, the utility charges will be charged to and deducted from the security deposit. It is understood and agreed between Owner and Residents that in the event submetered or allocation payments are not made when due, it shall be considered a default under this Agreement.
13.	DAMAGES, ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRS. Residents agree not to destroy, damage, deface or remove any part of the Leased Premises or Residential Community or permit any persons or animals to do so and to assume all liability for damages other than ordinary wear and tear. Residents shall make no alterations to the Leased Premises without the prior written consent of Owner, which may be withheld in Owner's sole and absolute discretion. Any alteration made to the Leased Premises by Residents after that consent has been given, and any fixtures installed as a part of that work, will at Owner's option become the Owner's property on the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, provided, however, that Owner shall have the right to require Residents to remove any fixtures at Residents' cost on termination of this Agreement. Residents shall notify Owner of any dilapidations or other defective conditions on the Leased Premises that require repairs. Residents agree not to install additional or different locks, gates or alarms on any doors or windows of the Leased Premises without written permission of Owner. If Owner approves Residents' request to install such mechanisms, Residents agree to provide Owner with a key for each lock. Residents shall not allow any liens to attach to the Leased Premises and shall pay for all work and alterations performed by Residents.
EXCEPT IN CASES OF EMERGENCIES OR FAIR HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS, ALL NOTICES FROM RESIDENTS OR OCCUPANTS TO OWNER REGARDING REPAIRS, SERVICES, OR SECURITY MUST BE SIGNED BY RESIDENTS OR OCCUPANTS AND PROVIDED TO OWNER IN WRITTEN OR ELECTRONIC FORM ONLY, AS
SPECIFIED BY OWNER. Verbal requests from Residents, as well as written notes by Owner, Owner's employees, or agents will not be considered proper notice under this provision, and Owner's compliance with Residents' verbal requests does not constitute waiver of the strict requirements of this Section. Incidents constituting emergencies include situations where persons or property are in danger of imminent harm, such as fire, smoke, flooding water or active criminal activity. Residents must immediately notify Owner of any repairs, service issues, or security issues in the Leased Premises or at the Residential Community. Owner may terminate this Agreement upon reasonable notice to Residents if the Leased Premises are substantially damaged or the performance of services or repairs creates a danger to Residents, and Owner may remove Residents' personal property if it poses a safety or health hazard. Owner may temporarily interrupt services as needed to prevent property damage or perform repairs, which will not constitute a reduction in services entitling Residents to an abatement of rent, unless required by law.
14.	RISK OF LOSS OF RESIDENTS' PROPERTY. Residents shall bear the risk of loss of any and all of Residents' personal property whether located in the Leased Premises, in garage/carport, designated storage areas or anywhere within the Residential Community. Residents agree not to hold Owner, its agents and/or employees liable in any manner
for or on account of any loss or damages sustained by reason of the acts or omissions of third parties, or arising from any casualty (including but not limited to fire, smoke, rain, flood, water and pipe leaks, mold, hail, ice, snow, lightning, wind, explosions, earthquake, interruption of utilities, theft, hurricane, negligence of other residents, occupants, or invited/uninvited guests or vandalism, unless otherwise required by law). Residents understand and agree that Residents, any members of their household, Occupants, or guests are not beneficiaries of any insurance policies held by the Owner or the Owner's agents. Residents are required to purchase and maintain personal liability insurance with a coverage limit of no less than $100,000.00oscdCoverageAmt for the Initial Term and any renewal periods. Residents will be in material breach of this Agreement if they fail to comply with the requirements of this provision.
15.	ANIMALS. No animals are permitted without the prior written consent of Owner. Any such consent may be revoked at any time, with or without cause, by giving 30oscdPetConsentDays days written notice to Residents. Except to the extent written permission is given, animals may not be brought upon the Leased Premises, whether such animals belong to Residents or to any other person. The presence of any animals as to which written permission has not been given and is not currently in force, even if such animals are "just visiting," shall be deemed a material and incurable breach of this Agreement and shall be cause for the service of a notice terminating the tenancy. Service animals or companion animals are not subject to these provisions. However, Owner may require a written statement from a qualified professional verifying the need for the service or companion animal.
16.	HOLD HARMLESS FOR GUESTS. Residents agree to defend, protect, indemnify, and hold harmless Owner and Owner's agents against and from any and all claims, suits, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, causes of action, and expenses, brought by Residents' Occupants, guests, or any other person in the Leased Premises with Residents' permission. If any action or proceeding is brought against Owner or Owner's agents by reason of any such claim, upon notice from the Owner, Residents shall defend the same at Residents expense by counsel reasonably satisfactory to Owner.
17.	DELIVERY OF LEASED PREMISES. If, for any reason, Owner is unable to provide occupancy to Residents by the scheduled first day of the Initial Term, this Agreement will continue to be in effect, and Residents may elect one of the following remedies: a) a prorated daily abatement of rent until the date that Owner delivers possession of the Leased Premises; or b) Residents may terminate this Agreement up until such time as Owner delivers possession. Owner will have no liability to Residents if there is a delay of possession other than to refund any amounts paid to Owner under this Agreement. Residents' failure to take occupancy of the Leased Premises due to issues of cleanliness, repairs, or services, does not constitute a failure of Owner to deliver possession of the Leased Premises.
18.	RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER. Owner will act with customary diligence, and as required by applicable law, in keeping common areas reasonably clean; maintaining fixtures and appliances; complying with applicable safety, sanitation, and fair housing laws; and making reasonable repairs, subject payment by Residents for liable damages.
 18.1. Security. Owner makes no representations or guarantees to Residents concerning the security of the Leased Premises or the Residential Community. Owner is under no obligation to Residents to provide any security measure or take any action not required by statute. The presence of courtesy patrols, patrol cars, access gates, surveillance cameras or other deterrents do not guarantee that crime can or will be prevented. All such systems are subject to personnel absenteeism, human error, mechanical malfunctions and tampering. Residents are responsible for planning and taking action with respect to the safety of Residents and their property as if such systems and deterrents did not exist. Residents agree to immediately report all suspected or actual criminal activity to the appropriate local law enforcement agencies and, after doing so, to Owner, and shall provide Owner with such law enforcement agency's incident report number upon request.
Owner has no obligation to obtain criminal background checks on any Residents and bears no responsibility or liability related to the criminal background or actions (whether past, present or future) of any person, even if Owner has actually run a criminal background check on applicants. Residents shall not rely on the fact that Owner may have run a criminal background check on Residents or any other applicant when deciding whether to enter into this Agreement. Background checks are limited to the information actually reviewed and are not a guarantee that a person with a criminal background does not reside at the Residential Community. Owner has not made and does not make any representations as to the background of any existing or future residents and Owner is under no obligation to run background checks on any existing resident or future applicant.
19.	ACCESS. Owner may enter the Leased Premises under the following circumstances: 1) in case of emergency; 2) to make necessary or agreed repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements; 3) to supply necessary or agreed services; 4) to exhibit the Leased Premises to prospective or actual purchasers, mortgagees, residents, workers, or contractors; 5) if Residents abandon or surrender the Leased Premises; 6) pursuant to court order; 7) to perform an inspection of the Leased Premises; or 8) under any other circumstances permitted by state law. Owner will give Residents at least twenty-four (24)oscdAccessNoticeHours hours notice of Owner's intent to enter unless: a) an emergency exists; b) Residents have abandoned or surrendered the Leased Premises; or c) it is impracticable to do so. Further, Owner will enter only during regular business hours unless: i) an emergency exists; ii) Residents have abandoned or surrendered the Leased Premises; or iii) Residents consent, at the time of an entry that is not during normal business hours, to the entry. Owner may deliver the notice via mail, email, or other electronic messaging service. Residents agree that if they deny Owner access to the Leased Premises when Owner is in compliance with statutory requirements and entitled to access, any such denial of access shall be deemed a material breach of this Agreement and shall entitle Owner to serve Residents with a notice terminating this Agreement.
20.	TERMINATION, DEFAULT, AND REMEDIES.
 20.1. Materiality of Obligations. Owner and Residents agree that all provisions, obligations, and conditions of this Agreement are reasonable and material and that a breach by Residents or Occupants of any such provision, obligation, or condition constitutes a material breach thereof.
 20.2. Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default by Residents:
A.	Residents' failure to pay rent or any other sum when due and such failure continues for three (3) days after receipt of written notice therefor;
B.	Residents or Occupants' failure to comply with any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement, and such failure continues for ten (10) days after receipt of written notice thereof; provided however that if the nature of the default is such that the same cannot reasonably be cured within said ten (10) days after written notice by Owner.
C.	Any assignment by Residents of this Agreements or interest herein without Owner's prior written consent;
D.	Any abandonment of the Leased Premises by Residents or moving out of the Leased Premises prior to the expiration of the Agreement; or
E.	The filing of bankruptcy or insolvency petition by or against Residents.
 20.1. In the event of a default by Owner, Residents shall not have any rights to offset or deduct from rent, unless authorized by statute. Without limiting the foregoing, Owner shall have the option to do one or more of the following, said remedies being cumulative: 1) terminate this Agreement by delivering written notice thereof to Residents; 2) require Residents immediately to surrender possession of the Leased Premises to Owner; 3) without process of law, to reenter, reoccupy, take possession of the Leased Premises and remove all persons and property from the Leased Premises at Residents' expense; 4) operate the Leased Premises, making such repairs, restoration and improvements as may, in Owner's sole judgment, and at Residents' expense, be appropriate to restore the Leased Premises to its condition as of the beginning of the Initial Term and re-let the Leased Premises; and 5) re-let the Leased Premises. Residents hereby waives any demand for surrender in connection with any action or suit against Residents in ejectment or forcible detainer. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event the Residents defaults under this Lease, Residents agree to reimburse Owner for all costs incurred as a result of the breach. Such costs may include, but are not limited to: the reletting expense defined below, lost rents, utilities, attorney's fees. This is an addition to all late fees and penalties and security deposit rights and any and all other rights Owner has under this Agreement and under law and equity.
Receipt by Owner of rent or other payment from Residents shall not be deemed to operate as a waiver of any rights of Owner to enforce the payment of any rent or other payment previously due or which may thereafter become due or of any rights of Owner to terminate this Agreement by notice theretofore given or thereafter to be given or to exercise any remedy or right which might otherwise be available to Owner. In the event of a default by Owner, Residents shall not have any rights to offset or deduct from rent by Residents shall have all other remedies in law and equity.
 20.2. Reletting Expense. Because damages relating to the Owner's costs to find and replace residents are difficult to ascertain in the situations described below, Residents agree that a reletting expense of $1,275.00 is a reasonable estimate for such activity. Residents will be required to pay the reletting expense: a) for failure to provide written move out notice pursuant to terms of this Agreement; b) upon Owner's demand in the event of Residents' default; c) pursuant to a court order for eviction; or d) for failure to pay rent in full for the entire lease term or renewal period upon move out. The reletting expense is not the same as a lease cancellation fee or buyout fee, rather, it is an agreed upon liquidated amount to cover Owner's damages in part. The reletting expense is not a substitute for and does not release Residents from liability for damages to the Leased Premises, cleaning charges, past and future rent due, or other amounts due under this Agreement.
21.	MOVE-OUT NOTICES AND PROCEDURES. Prior to moving out, Residents are required to provide Owner with written notice as required under the Term section of this Agreement or at least fifteen (15) days advance written notice, whichever is longer. The move out notice must comply with the notice provision of this Agreement and provide Residents' move out date. Residents must obtain written acknowledgment from Owner of receipt of Residents' move out notice. If Owner terminates this Agreement, Owner will provide Residents with the same notice unless Residents have breached the terms of this Agreement. Oral move out notice is not an acceptable form of termination. Any move-out prior to the expiration of the term will not relieve Resident from paying rent and satisfying its other obligations under this Agreement throughout the entire Term. Each Resident must provide Owner with their forwarding address in writing. A move out notice does not release Residents from liability under the full term or any renewal terms of this Agreement except where Resident moves out pursuant to a Military Personnel Release or if Owner and Resident agree to such release in a written amendment signed by both parties.
Residents, Occupants, and guests must vacate the Leased Premises on or by the expiration of the term or other move out date agreed upon in writing by both parties or the date contained in Residents' move out notice, or Owner's notice to vacate. Owner may pursue action for possession for any hold over after expiration of the term of this Agreement or its termination, without the consent of Residents. Additionally, Residents will be liable for hold over rent, which will be increased by twenty-five percent (25%) over the then existing rent, and rent for the full term of a lease signed by a new resident, prior to Residents' hold over, who is unable to occupy the Leased Premises because of Residents' hold over.
 21.1. Cleaning. Prior to moving out, Residents are required to clean all areas of the Leased Premises, including but not limited to, living and dining rooms, kitchens, hallways, bedrooms, closets, bathrooms, floors, outdoor walkways, patios, balconies, and any leased or assigned parking or storage areas. Residents must also comply with move out and cleaning instructions provided by Owner. If, at Owner's discretion, Residents fail to adequately clean the Leased Premises, Owner reserves the right to hire a professional cleaning service and Residents will be liable for reasonable cleaning expenses. Owner may deduct the cost of carpet cleaning regardless of whether the Residents clean the carpet before delivery of possession of the Leased Premises to Owner.
22.	RESIDENTS' PERSONAL PROPERTY. Residents shall vacate and remove all personal property from the Leased Premises upon expiration or termination of the then current term of this Agreement without further notice or demand from Owner. Owner may remove and dispose of Residents' personal property in a manner permissible by applicable law upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, surrender, abandonment, or court ordered eviction of Resident. Residents will be liable to pay Owner for reasonable costs associated with packing, removing, storing, and selling Residents' property. Owner may consider the Leased Premises surrendered when: a) this Agreement expires; b) Residents return keys and access devices to Owner; or c) the Residents have vacated the Leased Premises and the move out date has passed, whichever is earlier. Owner may consider the Leased Premises abandoned when Residents have been absent from the Leased Premises without providing written notice of absence to Owner, for five (5) consecutive days with rent owing.
23.	SECURITY DEPOSIT RETURN. The security deposit will be held by Owner, and Owner may, but shall not be obligated to, apply all or any portions of the security deposit on account of Residents' obligations. Any balance remaining upon termination or earlier expiration of this Agreement shall be returned to Residents within the earlier of: a) thirty (30) days following such termination or earlier expiration, as the case may be; or b) the number of days required by law. Upon returning the balance of the security deposit to Residents, Owner shall also deliver to Residents a statement showing any charges made against the security deposit. Residents shall not have the right to apply the security deposit in payment of the last month's rent. Delivery of security deposit refunds and itemized deductions to any one of multiple residents shall constitute notice and delivery to all Residents.
24.	RELEASE OF RESIDENTS.	Unless otherwise provided for by this Agreement or by law, Residents will not be released from this Agreement.
	 24.1.	Military Personnel Release.	The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act ("SCRA") provides relief to U.S.
service members entered into certain real property leases. Residents eligible for protection under the SCRA include: 1) Active duty service members who receive military orders for a permanent change of station or deployment orders; 2) Residents entering active duty service for the first time; and 3) Activated Reservists and National Guardsmen, when serving in federal active duty. The SCRA allows for early termination in the following instances: a) the service member entered into the lease before active military service; b) the service member entered into the lease while on active duty and then received permanent change of station orders; or c) the service member entered into the lease while on active duty and then received orders to deploy in support of a military operation in excess of ninety (90) days.
Residents seeking release pursuant to the SCRA are required to provide: 1) at least thirty (30) days written notice to Owner; and 2) copies of Residents' military orders. After notice is delivered, this Agreement will be terminated thirty (30) days after the next date that rental payment is due or forty five (45) days after Owner receives notice, whichever is shorter. In order to be eligible for release under this section, this Agreement must be signed by or on the behalf of the service member. Release under this section does not apply to a co-resident who is not the spouse or legal dependent of the eligible Resident.
25.	MISCELLANEOUS. This Agreement, including all applicable exhibits, schedules, addenda, or forms, sets forth all of the promises, agreements, conditions, and understandings between Owner and Residents and may not be changed or modified except by an agreement in writing signed by all parties. Residents acknowledge that all representations and statements relied upon in executing this Agreement are contained herein and that Residents in no way relied on any other statements or representations, written or oral. This Agreement and all rights of Residents arising under it are expressly agreed to be subject and subordinate to present and future recorded mortgages which are or may be placed upon the Leased Premises and all other rights afforded to the holder of any such mortgages.
 
25.1. Zero Tolerance Crime Policy. Residents, Occupants, guests, or other individuals under Residents' control: 1) shall not engage in criminal activity or engage in any act intended to facilitate criminal activity on or near the Residential Community; 2) shall not engage in drug-related criminal activity on or near the Residential Community, including but not limited to, the illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or possession with the intent to manufacture, sell, distribute, or use of an illegal or controlled substance as defined in the Controlled Substance Act, 21 U.S.C. § 802; 3) shall not facilitate, use, or permit the Leased Premises to be used for criminal or drug-related criminal activity; and 4) shall not engage in any illegal activity which might negatively affect the health, safety, or welfare of the Owner, Owner's agents, other residents, the Leased Premises, or the Residential Community. Owner and Residents agree that these provisions are reasonable and material and that a violation by Residents of any such provision constitutes a material breach of this Agreement and is good cause for immediate termination of tenancy.
 25.2. Satellite Dishes and Antennas. The Federal Communications Commission states that Residents have a limited right to install a satellite dish or receiving antenna within the Leased Premises. This Agreement must be amended to incorporate requirements and restrictions prior to any installation. Residents are responsible for making sure the Leased Premises is in a location to receive the satellite signal prior to requesting permission to install. For information on requirements and restrictions, contact Owner. Resident shall not install any external media device nor climb or have others climb upon the roof.
 25.3. Bedbugs. Bedbugs are wingless parasites which may lie dormant in cracks, crevices and personal belongings until a host is present. Residents have an affirmative duty to inspect the Leased Premises and notify Owner of the presence or infestation of insects or vermin including bedbugs within forty-eight (48) hours of the Residents taking possession of the Leased Premises. Absent this timely notice to Owner, Residents acknowledge and confirm that the Leased Premises are free of the presence or infestation of insects or vermin, including bedbugs. Residents agree to maintain the Leased Premises in a manner that prevents the occurrence of an infestation of insects and vermin including bedbugs. If Residents allow individuals or items carrying bedbugs into the Leased Premises, or have repeated infestations that cannot be traced to another source, such will be deemed damage to the Leased Premises and Residents will be responsible for the cost of treatment to the Leased Premises, personal belongings and surrounding residences as necessary to eradicate the infestation.
 25.4. Attorney's Fees. In the event of any litigation relating to this Agreement or the rights or liabilities of any party arising hereunder, the prevailing party in such litigation shall be entitled to its costs, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred in such litigation. In the event any such litigation is dismissed prior to trial, the parties agree that there shall be no prevailing party for purposes of an award of attorney's fees and/or costs. An eviction or unlawful detainer action shall be considered an action relating to this Agreement and thus subject to this provision.
 25.5. Domestic Violence. Upon written request by the victim of domestic violence, Owner will change the locks within twenty-four (24) hours and provide the protected Resident a key to the new lock. Resident may terminate this Agreement if Resident is a victim of domestic violence. Resident or other household member must make a request to terminate this Agreement within sixty (60) days of the date the restraining order was issued or the police report was written. Resident that is the victim of domestic violence is responsible for the payment of rent for thirty (30) days following the written notice. If the Leased Premises is occupied by other Residents, the obligation to pay rent will continue until the end of this Agreement. Resident must provide: a) a copy of the restraining order or emergency protective order lawfully issued within the last one hundred-eighty (180) days; or b) a copy of a written report, written within the last one hundred-eighty (180) days, by a peace officer employed by the state or local law enforcement agency acting in official capacity, stating that the Resident or household member has filed a report alleging that the Resident or a household member is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
Owner may terminate this Agreement or elect not to renew this Agreement if: a) Resident allows the person against whom the protective order has been issued or who was named in the police report of the act or acts of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking to visit or reside in the Leased Premises; or b) Owner reasonably believes that the presence of the person against whom the protection order has been issued or who was named in the police report that outlines the act or acts of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking poses a physical threat to other Residents, household members, guests or employees or to a Resident's right to quiet possession of the Leased Premises.
 25.6. Sale of Leased Premises. In the event of a sale or pending sale of the Residential Community or in the event the Owner, new owner, lender, or lender's receiver must obtain possession of the Leased Premises in order to redevelop, renovate, or demolish the Leased Premises or any portion of the Residential Community, Residents agree that the Owner, new owner, lender, or lender's receiver shall have the right to terminate this Agreement upon sixty (60) days written notice.
 25.7. Fair Housing. Owner shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal non-discrimination and fair housing laws, including laws which prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, religion, ethnic origin, national origin, color, sex, age, physical or mental disability, or family status.
25.8. Unpaid Balances. All unpaid balances bear interest at the highest amount allowed by Idaho law. Additionally, if Residents fail to pay all sums due as stated in the demand letter by the deadline stated in the demand letter, Residents shall be liable to pay all collection agency fees related to the collection of the unpaid balances.
 25.9. Month-to-Month Terms. In the event that this Agreement continues month-to-month, Residents shall pay Owner a month-to-month charge of $300.00oscdMTMLeaseFee. This charge is due to Owner every month along with the monthly rent payment, and is subject to increase upon notice to Residents. For purposes of this Agreement, any unpaid month-to-month charges are deemed additional rent.
 25.10. Waiver of Jury Trial. To the extent permitted by law, the parties agree that any dispute arising from or related to this Agreement will be decided by a judge and not a jury.
 25.11. Cash is not acceptable as a form of payment. Post-dated or third party payments will not be accepted. When rent or other payments are paid after the grace period and a legal notice of past due rent and
other charges is delivered there is an additional $35 charge for legal notice service fees.oscdRentPayMethodOther
26.	DISCLOSURE. Owner may provide information on Residents or Residents' rental history to business affiliates or upon reasonable request from an authorized agent of state or federal government or law enforcement agency to the extent permitted by law.
27.	NO WAIVER. Owner's failure on any occasion to require strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or to exercise any rights arising hereunder shall not be deemed a waiver of Owner's right to subsequently enforce any such provision or to insist upon any such right. The fact that Owner may have accepted late payment(s) on one (1) or more occasions shall not be deemed a waiver of Owner's right to insist upon timely payment of rent nor to exercise any remedy available for late payment of rent. Acceptance of rent following a breach of this Agreement shall not be deemed to constitute a waiver of such breach. No custom or practice which may develop between the parties in the course of the tenancy shall be construed to waive the right of Owner to enforce any provision of this Agreement.
Owner's representatives (including management personnel, employees, and agents) have no authority to waive, amend, or terminate this Agreement or any part of it, unless in writing, and no authority to make promises, representations, or agreements that impose security duties or other obligations on Owner or Owner's representatives unless in writing. Except when notice or demand is required by statute, Residents waive any notice and demand for performance from Owner of Residents' default. Written notice to or from Owner's agents, representatives, or managers constitutes notice to or from Owner. All notices must be signed.
28.	SEVERABILITY. If a provision or paragraph of this Agreement is legally invalid, or declared by a court to be unenforceable, such provision or paragraph will be deemed deleted and the rest of this Agreement shall remain in effect. To the extent that any provision of this Agreement is in conflict with any provisions of applicable law, such provision is hereby deleted, and any provision required by applicable law which is not included in this Agreement is hereby inserted as an additional provision of this Agreement, but only to the extent required by applicable law and then only so long as the provision of the applicable law is not repealed or held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction.
29.	ATTACHMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT. Residents certify that he/she/they have received a copy of this Agreement and the below listed attachments to this Agreement, and understand that these attachments are part of this Agreement.
Animal Addendum
Asbestos Notification Addendum
Bedbug Addendum
Community Policies
Community Policies (Additional)
Lead-Based Paint Disclosure Lease Buy-Out Agreement	Mold Addendum
Move In - Pre-Move Out - Move Out Inspection Form
Resident Contact Information
Restricted Animal/Breed Policy
Roommate Addendum
Smoke Free Addendum
Utilities Addendum
30.	SIGNATORIES. This Agreement expresses the complete understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter set forth herein and supersedes all prior proposals, agreements, representations and understandings. The undersigned Residents, whether or not in actual possession of the Leased Premises, are jointly and severally responsible for all obligations arising hereunder. This Agreement shall not be considered to be in full force and effect until signed by Owner. Owner may, without liability, refuse to enter into this Agreement and may refuse to allow Residents to occupy the Leased Premises at any time prior to signing this Agreement. Anything to the contrary in this provision notwithstanding, Residents shall be fully liable for all obligations arising hereunder, and Owner may enforce the provisions of this Agreement against Residents if, for any reason or by any means, Residents obtain occupancy to the Leased Premises before such time as this Agreement has been signed by Owner or Owner's authorized agent.
30.1. Electronic Signatures. The parties agree that they may enter into this transaction by electronic means; although, traditional hard copies with ink signatures may be used instead at Owner's option or if required by law. Residents agree and acknowledge that if Residents are entering into this transaction with Owner by electronic means, doing so is not conditioned on Residents' agreement to conduct the leasing transaction electronically.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 
ANIMAL ADDENDUM
This Addendum ("Addendum") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Addendum vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Addendum shall control.
1.	No animals are permitted without the prior written consent of Owner. Any such consent may be revoked at any time, with or without cause, by giving ten (10) days written notice to Residents. Except to the extent written permission is given, animals may not be brought upon the Leased Premises, whether such animals belong to Residents or to any other person. The presence of any animals as to which written permission has not been given and is not currently in force, even if such animals are "just visiting," shall be deemed a material and incurable breach of this Addendum and shall be cause for the service of a notice terminating the tenancy. Service animals or companion animals are not subject to these provisions; however, Owner may require a written statement from a qualified professional verifying the need for the service or companion animal.
2.	Subject to strict compliance with this Addendum, you are permitted to have the following 0numPetsReload animal(s) on the Leased Premises:
No pets have been authorized at this time.
3.	RENT. A total monthly animal rent of $0.00 is required. The animal rent shall be due and payable with Residents' monthly rental payment.
4.	DEPOSIT. An additional deposit of $0.00petBlockDeposit is required. Upon vacating the Leased Premises, Owner shall do an inspection of the Leased Premises and any sanitizing or damage attributable to the animal(s) shall be charged to Residents accordingly. The animal deposit will be considered part of the general security deposit and can be applied to all damages. This additional security deposit shall be deemed part of the general security deposit for all purposes. The security deposit amount set forth in this Addendum is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other security deposit paid by Residents. Refund of the security deposit will be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Residential Lease Contract.
5.	COMMUNITY RESTRICTIONS.
A.	Animals must be under Residents' control when outside of Leased Premises and shall not be tied to anything or left unattended outside of Leased Premises. Residents shall be limited to a maximum of 2petMaximum animal(s) weighing not more than 85maxPetWeight per animal when fully grown, unless otherwise given written permission by Owner.
B.	When animal is acquired, additional sums may be required to be paid by Residents. Service or companion animals are not subject to this provision nor the standard animal deposits and animal rent requirements; however, Owner may require a written statement from a qualified professional verifying the need for the service animal or companion animal.
C.	Residents are responsible for the immediate removal of animal's waste. Animal owners are required to purchase and carry scoopers and/or trash bags when walking dogs within community, including designated dog run areas. Some communities may be equipped with pet waste disposal stations.
D.	Residents may not leave the animal on the patio, balcony or in the yard for extended periods of time.
E.	There is a dog park located at the Northwest corner of the property where residents may take a pet to run. Residents will need to promptly pick up waste from animals in this area.specifyAllowedAreasForPets.
F.	Patios should be kept clean of animal droppings. During hot weather, especially, odors from such can be extremely offensive to neighbors. No food is to be left outside.
G.	Because of health regulations, non-service animals are not permitted in or around the pool area, laundry rooms, or other recreational facilities. Any mess on the grounds created by the animal shall immediately be cleaned up by the pet owner.
H.	Owner is not obligated to make necessary or requested repairs while an animal is present in the Leased Premises.
I.	A charge of $125.00fleaSprayCharge will be assessed for flea spraying in a Leased Premises which has contained an animal.
6.	INOCULATION.	Said animal has been properly licensed and has current inoculations for the type of animal.
7.	DISTURBANCE. Residents will be asked to remove any animal that regularly disturbs residents, whether inside or outside, or constitutes a problem or obstruction to the agents and employees of Owner from properly performing their functions, duties and responsibilities.
8.	REVOCATION. If Residents fail to remove said animal following complaints from residents and requests from Owner, the Residents agree, on ten (10) days written notice, to remove animal from the Leased Premises permanently. Owner may revoke the consent given herein upon ten (10) days written notice, which revocation will require Residents to remove the animal from the Leased Premises within said ten (10) days.
9.	OWNER'S LIABILITY. In the event of injury or death of a pet, Owner will not be liable to Residents, any member of Residents' household, occupants, guests, invitees, or other persons for any indirect, incidental, consequential or special damages, whether foreseeable or not nor however caused, even if Owner is advised of the possibility of such damages.
10.	VIOLATION OF RULES/VIOLATION FEE. If Residents, any member of Residents' household, occupants, guests, invitees, or other persons violate any rule or provision of this Animal Addendum, then Owner may demand that Residents remove the animal permanently from the Leased Premises. Owner also has all other rights and remedies set forth in the Residential Lease Contract, including but not limited to damages, termination, and eviction. If Residents fail to clean up animal waste from any part of the Residential Community and Owner, as a result of Residents' noncompliance, is required to make arrangements to have the waste cleaned up, Residents shall pay Owner a sum of $100.00petWasteFine, per occurrence, as a liquidated damage. Said sum shall not limit Owner's right to terminate the tenancy, force Residents to remove the animal, and/or evict Residents, based upon any violation of this Addendum. Residents acknowledge that bringing unauthorized animals onto the Leased Premises is a violation of the Residential Lease Contract and this Addendum, and Residents will be required to pay Owner a sum of $150.00animalViolationCharge per violation.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	13	 	
ASBESTOS NOTIFICATION ADDENDUM
This Addendum ("Addendum") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Addendum vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Addendum shall control.
It is presumed that asbestos-containing construction materials may be present in the building where you live or work. The presence of asbestos-containing materials in buildings such as this is not unusual. Because of its excellent fire retardant and acoustical insulation qualities, asbestos was commonly used in buildings constructed prior to 1980. These asbestos-containing construction materials, are located but not limited to the following areas:
1.	Acoustic Ceiling
2.	Drywall Taping Mud
3.	Vinyl Flooring
4.	Ceramic Tile Mastic
5.	Roof Mastic
6.	Stucco
The mere presence of asbestos-containing construction materials does not necessarily present a health hazard. Health hazards may exist when asbestos-containing materials are damaged and fibers are released into the air. Exposure to airborne asbestos fibers may cause lung disease, cancer and other serious illnesses. To prevent damage to asbestos-containing construction materials and minimize disturbance, release, and exposure to asbestos, the following precautions must be taken by all building occupants:
1.	Do not cut, drill holes or make any penetrations into linoleum, floor tiles, drywall walls and ceilings, or shower enclosures. Should any areas containing asbestos become disturbed, do not vacuum or remove from the area. Immediately contact your on-site office for assistance.
2.	Contact the on-site office before:
a.	Removing linoleum floor tiles; and
b.	Making repairs to drywall and shower enclosures or undertaking major rehabilitation work to the building structure.
An asbestos Operations and Maintenance Plan has been designed to minimize the potential for release of asbestos fibers and to outline a schedule of actions to be undertaken with respect to the asbestos. A copy of the Asbestos Operations and Maintenance Plan, as well as further information on procedures and handling restrictions necessary to minimize the disturbance, release and exposure to asbestos in the building, may be obtained from the site office.
If you have any further questions pertaining to this asbestos notification or require additional information, you may contact the on-site rental office, or the address below:
2810 W Jefferson Street Boise, ID, 83702
Violation of these instructions are deemed a material breach and may subject the Resident to legal action.
ACKNOWLEDGED:
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date
 
BED BUG ADDENDUM
This Addendum ("Addendum") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Addendum vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Addendum shall control.
This Addendum is intended to provide information and instructions for preventing and controlling bed bugs in order to maintain and protect the quality of the living environment for all Residents.
Residents agree to maintain the Leased Premises in a manner that prevents the occurrence of a bedbug infestation in the Leased Premises. Residents further agree to uphold this responsibility in part by complying with the following list of responsibilities, and agree and understand that, in addition to any other remedies available to Owner under the Lease, Residents may be liable for any damages resulting from their failure to comply with the following:
1.	Prevention Recommendations.	Residents will practice good housekeeping, including the following:
•	Residents will check for hitch-hiking bedbugs. If Residents stay in a hotel or another home, inspect clothing, luggage, shoes, and belongings for signs of bed bugs before Residents enter the Leased Premises. Check backpacks, shoes, and clothing after visits to friends or family, theaters, and after using public transportation. After guests visit, inspect beds, bedding, and upholstered furniture.
•	Residents will remove clutter. Bed bugs like dark, concealed places, such as in and around piles of clothing, shoes, stuffed animals, laundry, especially under the bed and in closets. Reducing clutter also makes it easier to carry out housekeeping.
•	Residents will keep the Leased Premises clean. Vacuum and dust regularly, particularly in the bedroom, being especially thorough around and under the bed, drapes, and furniture. Use a brush attachment to vacuum furniture legs, headboard, and in and around the nightstand. While cleaning, look for signs of bed bugs, and report these immediately.
•	Residents will arrange furniture to minimize bed bug hiding places. If possible, keep beds and upholstered furniture several inches away from the walls. Bed bugs can jump as far as three inches.
•	It is highly recommended that Residents cover mattresses and box springs with zippered covers that are impermeable to bed bugs. These are relatively inexpensive, and can prevent bed bugs from getting inside the mattress, their favorite nesting spot. The covers will also prevent any bugs inside from getting out; they will eventually die inside the sealed cover (though this may take many months). Thicker covers will last longer.
•	Residents will avoid using appliances, electronics and furnishings that have not been thoroughly inspected for the presence of bedbugs. Make sure that the electronics, appliance, or furniture company has established procedures for the inspection and identification of bedbugs or other pests. This process should include inspection of trucks used to transport appliances, electronics, or furniture. Never accept an item that shows signs of bedbugs. Never take discarded items from the curbside or trash enclosures.
2.	Prompt Reporting.	Residents must immediately notify Owner, in writing, of any problems. Specifically, Residents will:
•	Report any signs of bed bugs. Do not wait. Even a few bugs can rapidly multiply to create a major infestation that can spread from one apartment to another.
•	Report any maintenance needs. Bed bugs like cracks, crevices, holes, and other openings. Request that all openings be sealed to prevent the movement of bed bugs from room to room.
3.	Cooperation with Pest Control. Residents will cooperate with pest control efforts, including allowing Owner to access the Leased Premises, in accordance with applicable law, to inspect and provide necessary treatments. If the Leased Premises (or a neighbor's residence) is infested with bed bugs, a pest management professional may be called in to provide necessary treatments. The treatment is more likely to be effective if the Leased Premises is properly prepared. Residents will comply with the recommendations from the pest management professional, including:
•	Remove all bedding (bed skirts too), drapes, curtains, and small rugs; bag these for transport to the laundry or dry cleaner.
•	Check mattresses carefully; those with minimal infestation may be cleaned, encased in vinyl covers, and returned to service. Heavily infested mattresses are not salvageable; seal these in plastic and dispose of them properly.
•	Empty dressers, nightstands, and closets. Remove all items from floors and surfaces. Inspect every item for signs of bed bugs. Using sturdy plastic bags, bag all clothing, shoes, boxes, toys, stored goods, etc. Bag washable and non-washable items separately. Take care not to tear the bags, and seal them well. Used bags must be discarded properly.
•	Vacuum floors, including inside closets. Pay special attention to corners, cracks, and dark places.
•	Vacuum all furniture, including inside drawers and nightstands. Vacuum mattresses, box springs, and upholstered furniture, being sure to remove and vacuum all sides of loose cushions, as well as the undersides of furniture.
•	Carefully remove vacuum bags, seal bags in plastic, and discard.
•	Clean all machine-washable bedding drapes, clothing, etc. Use the hottest water the machine provides, and dry at highest heat setting. Take other items to a dry cleaner, but be sure to advise the dry cleaner that the items are infested. Discard any items that cannot be decontaminated.
•	Move furniture toward the center of the room, so that technicians can easily treat carpet edges where bed bugs congregate, as well as walls and furniture surfaces. Be sure to leave easy access to closets.
4.	Indemnification. Residents agree to indemnify and hold harmless Owner from any actions, claims, losses, damages, and expenses, including, but not limited to, attorneys' fees Owner may sustain or incur as a result of the negligence of Residents or any guest or other person living in, occupying, or using the Leased Premises.
Residents represent that all furnishings and other personal property that will be moved into the Leased Premises are free of bedbugs.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	16	 	
COMMUNITY POLICIES AND RULES
This Addendum ("Addendum") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Addendum vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Addendum shall control.
Jefferson West, strives to make your living experience in our community pleasant and comfortable. The following policies and rules were designed for your comfort and convenience, as well as that of your neighbors. Residents are responsible for reviewing all policies and rules with all household occupants and guests. Please take time to thoroughly review this Addendum as it governs the use of the Leased Premises, Residential Community, its equipment and facilities. "Premises" as used in the Community Policies includes not only the Leased Premises, but all of the land and improvements including any parking lots, driveways and common areas privately owned by the Owner and generally referred to as the Community.
Office Telephone #:	Emergency Maintenance #:
(208) 343-0590	(208) 631-9766emergencyMaintenancePhone
Office Address:	Office E-mail Address:
2810 W Jefferson Street, Boise, ID 83702	centralpointe@tablerockres.comemailAddress
Usual Office Hours:
By Appointment	
SECTION A: PROPERTY/MOVE-IN INFORMATION
BUSINESS: Residents shall not use the Leased Premises or permit the Leased Premises to be used for any business purpose, without the prior written consent of Owner or as allowed by law.
EXTENDED ABSENCES: Residents should advise Owner of any planned absence for an extended period of time.
MAIL AND NEWSPAPERS: Only authorized Residents are to receive mail at the Community. All mail must contain the full address of your residence, which includes the number of the Leased Premises as well as the building number - if applicable. Unwanted or "throw-away" advertising should be disposed of properly.
MOVING HOURS: All moving is to occur between the hours of 8AM and 10PMosmCertMovingHours, and the service elevator, if one is available at the Residential Community, is to be used to move any objects of furniture, beds, appliances, carpets and any other large objects that are not permitted on the passenger elevator. Owner must be notified in advance of any moving to schedule the time and date of such move.
PARCELS/PACKAGES: Residents are responsible for making arrangements for parcel delivery that does not fit in the provided mail receptacle. This includes parcels from UPS, Federal Express, U.S. Postal Service or other mail and delivery services.
PREMISES INSPECTION: Each new Resident has confirmed in writing the condition of the Leased Premises on the Move-in/Move-out inspection form. This form is designed to record the condition of the Leased Premises at the time of move-in and to help determine the final disposition of the security deposit after terminating residency. Periodically, Owner may enter each Leased Premises to check the smoke and/or carbon monoxide detector(s), replace the air conditioner/heater air filter, and to properly maintain the equipment in the Leased Premises. Residents will be notified of the inspections with a written notice 24 hoursinspectionWrittenNotice in advance. Inspection will be conducted during reasonable business hours. Upon vacating, Residents are entitled to an inspection of the Leased Premises to assess move-out charges.
QUIET HOURS: Quiet hours are established to be respectful of your neighbors. Residents shall not make nor permit any disturbing noises in their Leased Premises or on the grounds of the Community. Residents are responsible for the actions of all household members, invitees, and guests. Radio, television, record players, musical instruments, or any other noise producing device shall not be played or permitted to be played so as to disturb neighbors during quiet hours. Vacuum cleaners, dishwashers, disposals, or other noise-producing appliances shall not be operated during quiet hours.
SECTION B: USE OF PREMISES
ALTERATIONS OR ADDITIONS: Residents shall not make any alterations or additions to the Leased Premises. If any repairs, alterations or additions are necessary, Residents shall notify Owner in writing. Residents shall make no repairs, alterations, exterior alterations including, but not limited to, posting of signs, flags, plants on ledges and wind chimes, additions to the dwelling structure inside or out without first obtaining written consent from Owner. American flags may be displayed within the laws of the state and proper flag etiquette. Interior alterations include but are not limited to, changing light fixtures, painting, hanging wallpaper, etc.
 
BARBECUES: Unless included with the Leased Premises as an existing fixture or appliance, due to fire and other safety hazard concerns, no charcoal briquette barbecues grills, gas or propane grills, cooking/heating instruments, smokers, hibachi grills, portable gas stoves, etc. are to be stored or operated in the premises or on patios, balconies or breezeway areas. Any use of open flame is prohibited including but not limited to barbecues and torches.
FIRESTOP EXTINGUISHER: Residents acknowledge that the Leased Premises is equipped with an automatic firestop fire extinguisher. It is installed above the stove in the Leased Premises and will open if a flame touches it. The device will release bicarbonate of soda to smother the fire. Residents shall not remove, move or tamper with it for any reason. Residents agree to notify Owner, or Owner's agent, if the device is moved or discharges.
OUTWARD APPEARANCE: Alterations that affect the outward appearance of the Community, such as installing personal window coverings, foil on windows, towels, blankets or clothing draped over balconies or partitions, are not permitted. Signs or advertising materials will not be permitted to be posted except for political signs as addressed in your lease. No foil, sign advertisements, poster, or similar display, shall be affixed to any door, window or exterior wall, that may be visible from the outside of the building by other residents.
SMOKE DETECTOR: A smoke detection device has been installed in each Leased Premises. Residents acknowledge the smoke detector(s) was/were tested and its operation demonstrated by the Owner in the presence of Residents at the time of initial occupancy and the detector(s) in the Leased Premises was working properly at that time. Residents are not to disable the smoke detector for any reason. Disabled smoke detector puts life at risk. REMOVING OR TAMPERING WITH A SMOKE DETECTOR(S) will be considered cause for termination of residency. Residents will be assessed a charge of
$50.00smokeDetectorTamperFine for tampering with or removing the smoke detector.
A.B.
Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________8F9641C9
CARE OF EQUIPMENT AND PREMISES
Drains: Proper use of the plumbing fixtures and drain systems is essential to prevent clogs and back up. Do not dispose of leftover grease or cooking oil down sink drains. Do not flush non-flushable items such as paper towels, rags, tampons or other feminine sanitary products, condoms, diapers, wipes or Q-tips in toilet. Preventing water back up of any kind will avoid damages to your personal belongings and the Leased Premises. Residents will be charged for costs due to improper disposal of items that results in drain clogs.
Electric Baseboard Heaters: Although electrical baseboard heaters are safe and appropriate for use in the Leased Premises, it could be a danger to place combustible or flammable items on the heaters, or within 36 inches of the heaters. Combustible or flammable items (such as clothing, bedding, pillows, toys, and the like) should not be placed on or within 36 inches of the heaters. If the heater is on when you leave the room, Resident should conduct a visual check to see that combustible or flammable items are not placed on or within 36 inches of the electrical base board heaters.
Emergency Water Shut-Off: If you need to turn off your water supply quickly, you will find a shut-off valve for the bathroom and kitchen in the cabinet below the sinks. The toilet shut-off valve is located underneath the toilet tank.
Equipment: The Leased Premises is provided with Refrigerator, Stove/Oven, Garbage Disposal, Dishwasher, and Air
Conditionerappliances. Some units also have MicrowaveosmCertItemsProvidedAddtl. Residents assume responsibility for any misuse of this equipment. Owner will assist with any questions as to the procedures for proper operation of the equipment. No personal dish-washing machine, clothes washing machine, clothes dryer or other large appliance is permitted in the Leased Premises without prior written consent of Owner. Residents agree to utilize washers provided by the Community within the specifications of the manufacturer. Residents will not overload the washer. Residents agree to immediately inform Owner of repair needs. Residents understand that over a period of time, washer hoses can loosen or come free. Residents agree to regularly check hoses to make sure they are secure.
Garbage Disposal: Before turning on your disposal, make sure you have cold water running into the sink. Please keep in mind that your disposal is designed for food only. Never use to grind bones, egg shells, coffee grounds or other non-food items. Residents will be charged for costs due to drain clogs due to misuse.
Lighting Fixture: When replacing light bulbs, always check the correct amount of wattage. Installing a light bulb with improper wattage can be a fire hazard. Replacement of all bulbs within your Leased Premises is your responsibility after move-in.
Locks: Residents shall not alter any lock or install a new lock or knocker on any door of the Leased Premises without the written consent of Owner, and if installed, they shall not be removed. In such case consent is given, Residents shall provide Owner with a key for the use of Owner, pursuant to Owner's right to access to the Leased Premises. Locks or chains must be left in place when Residents vacate. Residents locked out after hours may call a locksmith at resident's expense to open the door.
Patios: Residents shall not sweep, shake dust mops, or throw anything out of windows or onto patios. Residents may not hang laundry, clothing, towels, or bedding on balcony railings or windowsills. Residents are responsible for keeping their patio area cleaned, neatly arranged and free from unsightly or unused items. Patio areas are not considered storage areas. Personal patio furniture must be kept on private patios or balconies. Planting of flowers is permitted only in the fenced-in areas of private patios and on balconies.
Toilets: Water saving toilets may have been installed in your unit. Hold the handle down until you hear the water fully released. Partial flushes may cause overflow. If the water level starts to overflow, immediately shut off the valve at the base of the toilet and plunge. Residents are responsible for trying to clear toilet stoppages. If a stoppage is caused due to Residents misuse the cost of the repair will be billed to the Residents.
Windows and/or Screens: Residents are responsible for the safety of all members of Residents' household or guests in the use and opening of windows. Be aware of the danger of falls from windows. Keep your windows closed and locked when small occupants are around and no adults are around to supervise. When opening windows for ventilation, open windows that a small occupant cannot reach. Keep furniture away from windows. Move chairs, cribs, beds and other furniture away from windows. Window screen will not prevent a fall from a window. Residents must not remove or tamper with screens. Screens which have been removed will be charged to the Resident an installation fee of $50.00windowScreenReplacement plus the actual cost of the damaged or missing screen. Residents acknowledge all screens are intact and in good condition upon taking occupancy. Window screens found on the ground will be placed back in the window and a labor charge assessed to the Residents. Residents shall be responsible for replacement and/or repair of windows and/or screens damaged or removed by Residents', members of Residents' household or guests.
FACILITIES AT THE RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY
Use of Facilities: All facilities provided by Owner are provided as a gratuity and are not a part of the Residential Lease Contract, and that Owner reserves the right to change or limit the hours of any such facilities, or to eliminate them completely without prior notice to Residents and that any such action by Owner shall not constitute a claim by Residents of any breach of Residential Lease Contract by Owner, nor be a basis for any reduction in rent or early termination of the Residential Lease Contract.
Dog Park:A dog park is provided for the enjoyment of your animals. The dog park allows dogs to run unleashed in a designated area; all persons using the dog park do so at their own risk. Owner is not responsible for any loss, damage or claims relating to any person's use of the dog park. Dog park hours may change without notice at any time. Dog park hours currently are open 24 hours each dayosmCertDogParkHours.
1.	Resident agrees that neither Resident, occupants of Resident's Leased Premises nor guests will enter the dog park area without a dog or disturb those using the dog park.
2.	Resident will accompany the animal to the dog park. Resident will not leave any animal unattended in the dog park.
3.	Animals may not be tethered to fence or other equipment in the dog park.
4.	Resident agrees to abide by all governmental regulations, including those relating to animal licensure and inoculations. Proof of same shall be provided upon request.
5.	Animals will not bite, lunge at or scare other residents or animals while using the dog park. Animals exhibiting aggressive behavior must be immediately removed. Animals must be under voice control and in sight of owner at all times. If an animal fight breaks out, pull the animals apart from the back.
6.	Residents are responsible for the immediate disposal of animal waste. Please carry a container/bag for the sanitary removal and disposal of your animal's feces.
7.	Animals are not permitted to dig holes in the dog park.
8.	Persons utilizing the dog park must be able to supervise and control the animal.
9.	No food, dog treats or drinks are permitted in the dog park, except water.
10.	Animals with fresh wounds are not permitted.
11.	Animals with spike or pinch collars are not permitted.
Fitness Center: Fitness Center hours may change without notice at any time. Fitness Center hours are open 24 hour each dayosmCertFitnessHours. Access to the fitness center is available by use of an amenity access code.
1.	Conduct of all persons using the Fitness Center must be professional, courteous and quiet.
2.	Thank you for keeping voice levels low. Offensive and abusive language will not be tolerated. Radios/stereos/CD players require the use of headphones.
3.	Refreshments other than a sports top water bottle are not allowed. Alcohol is not permitted.
4.	Residents understand that the use of fitness equipment is unsupervised. Residents agree the use of the equipment is at their own risk. Persons with health concerns should consult a physician prior to using the fitness equipment.
5.	For the safety of all persons, no one under the age of 16osmCertFitnessAgeLimit years of age should use the fitness equipment without an adult in attendance.
6.	Loitering in the Fitness Center is not allowed. Persons in the Fitness Center must be utilizing the provided equipment.
7.	Use of the Fitness Center is for residents only. Please limit use of equipment to osmCertFitnessUseLimit minute intervals.
8.	Please report any malfunctions with the fitness equipment to an Owner representative at the rental office immediately.
9.	Privileges for use of the Fitness Center may be terminated by Owner for failure to comply with the Fitness Center Policies or abuse or damage to the equipment.
Laundry Room: Laundry Room hours may change without notice at any time. Laundry Room hours are 24 hours a dayosmCertLaundryHours.
1.	Resident agrees to use machines based upon manufacturer's specifications.
2.	Resident agrees to promptly report problems with machine operation to Owner.
3.	Owner is not responsible for damaged to clothing caused by machine malfunctions or improper use of equipment.
4.	Owner does not provide change for use of machines.
5.	Resident agrees to clean machines and areas used after each wash or dry cycle.
6.	Resident agrees not to use dyes in washing machines or dryers.
7.	Resident must be present in the laundry room at all times when doing laundry. It is not recommended that clothing be left unattended. Owner is not responsible for clothing left unattended.
8.	Residents, household member or guests shall not loiter in the Laundry Room.
9.	Laundry Rooms may not be used as play areas.
10.	Laundry Room will be used during posted hours. Resident agrees to remove clothing 30 minutes prior to posted closing time.
Pool Use: For your safety and pleasure, please observe the following rules and regulations. Your cooperation will be appreciated by all. Pool hours may be changed without notice at any time. Pool hours are between the hours of 9 am and 9 pmosmCertPoolHours.
1.	Guests must be limited to 2 guestsosmCertMaxNumPoolGuests per Leased Premises. Residents must accompany their guests at all times while in the pool/spa area. There are no exceptions. Owner reserves the right to ask guests to leave should the occupancy of the pool exceed limits allowed by law.
2.	Persons 16osmCertMinPoolAge years of age and younger should not use pool without an adult in attendance.
3.	Residents, household occupants and guest agree to abide by all applicable health and safety laws regarding use of the pool.
4.	Warning: Persons using the pool do so at their own risk. Owner is not responsible for accident or injury.
5.	Pool safety equipment is not to be used except in case of emergency.
6.	No alcoholic beverages allowed in the pool area. No person under the influence of alcoholic beverages is permitted in or near the pool area. Glass is not allowed in the Pool Area.
7.	Food may not be served or eaten in or around the pool area without the Owner's consent. Refreshments must be in unbreakable containers.
8.	Proper swim attire is required at all times, going to and from and in or around the pool area. Street clothes, thongs, or see through attire is unacceptable.
9.	Animals/pets are not allowed in the pool area.
10.	Flotation devices, i.e., air mattresses, boats, frogs, planes are not allowed in the pool/spa.
11.	Radios, stereos and any musical instruments are not allowed in the pool areas. Radios/stereos with headphones are permitted.
12.	Owner is not responsible for articles lost, damaged or stolen.
13.	Throwing of items into the pool such as rocks, coins, and furniture is prohibited.
14.	Horseplay, diving and splashing, running, fighting, boisterous or dangerous conduct, noisy behavior disturbing to other residents, pushing, is not allowed.
15.	Residents, household occupants and guests will utilize a towel on all pool furniture when using suntan oils or lotions. Use of suntan oils requires a shower prior to entering the pool.
16.	Please remember not to hang your towels and swimwear on your patio railing.
17.	Owner reserves the right to restrict pool privileges to anyone not in compliance with these regulations.
SECTION C: PREMISES SERVICE
EMERGENCIES: Emergencies affecting the Leased Premises should be promptly reported to Owner. Please report emergencies occurring after office hours to the emergency number and leave a message with the answering service, pager system, on call personnel, etc. Residents are not authorized to call any service companies on their own. Owner will not be responsible for charges incurred for services not authorized by Owner.
MAINTENANCE/SERVICE REQUESTS: Residents are responsible for notifying Owner when maintenance or repair work needs to be performed in the Leased Premises. Requests for maintenance and repairs may be submitted by one of the following methods:
1.	By going to the Owner's office during normal working hours, and completing a "Service Request" form.
2.	Call the Owner's office during normal business hour to report a service request. Service requests can also be submitted by email, resident portal, or online maintenance system.
3.	All non-emergency requests for repairs will be handled during normal business hours.
4.	Employees cannot enter the Leased Premises to make repairs if there are persons under 18 years of age in the home without a responsible adult present. Service technicians may also elect not to enter the Leased Premises in the presence of an unattended animal.
5.	Scheduled appointments will be addressed in an 24 hoursmaintenanceOrderWindow window.
6.	Maintenance work performed due to neglect, abuse, misuse or direct fault of Residents, household occupants or guests will be billed to the Residents. This includes service work on garbage disposal and plumbing fixtures due to improper use and Residents caused clogging.
SEWER STOPPAGES: The sewer system is adequate to handle all normal waste, but the system will not handle disposable diapers, feminine products or other such refuse. Addition of toilet cleansing tabs can cause stoppage. Stoppages resulting from alterations to equipment, addition of a deodorizer or other action or inaction by the Resident, will be cleared at the Residents' expense.
UNSAFE CONDITIONS: Residents agree to report immediately to Owner any accident, injury, damage or loss, or need of service or repairs to water or gas pipes, electrical wiring, drains, toilets, fixtures, or any other property or equipment covered by the Residential Lease Contract, including all breakage, damage, or loss of any kind, including but not limited to, water intrusion, water leaks or moisture problems of any kind, damage from overflow of water from sinks, bathtubs, toilets, or other basins. Residents further agrees to immediately notify Owner of unsafe conditions in the common areas and grounds of the Leased Premises which may be a threat to health and safety or lead to damage or injury. Owner has the right to enter the Leased Premises if Owner believes an emergency exists. The following service needs constitute a non-exclusive list of potential emergencies:
1.	Main drains stopped up (kitchen, bath, shower) causing flooding or back-up
2.	Stopped up toilet (one bathroom premises)
3.	Electrical power outage in entire Leased Premises
4.	Water leaking from water heater
5.	Water leak from plumbing lines, windows, ceilings, or utility rooms causing flooding or damage
6.	Exterior flooding from sprinkler systems or pool
7.	Water which is running and cannot be shut off
8.	Broken window where the Leased Premises is not secure
9.	Door locks which will not function and the Leased Premises is not secure
10.	Malfunctioning or disabled smoke/carbon monoxide detectors.
11.	Fire (Call 911 first)
12.	Calls made after office hours that are not deemed emergencies may result in a charge to the Resident.
SECTION D: HOUSEKEEPING
HEALTH & SAFETY: Residents agree to comply with all obligations imposed upon Residents by applicable provisions of State and local building and housing codes materially affecting health and safety, including maintaining adequate housekeeping standards.
HOUSEHOLD ODORS: Residents acknowledge that odors caused by cooking or use of strong chemicals or from any other source should not interfere with other residents' rights to the quiet enjoyment of the Leased Premises. Residents agree to utilize proper fans and ventilation when cooking. Owner will make all reasonable efforts to minimize a disturbance but due to close proximity of living it is not possible to prevent such odors completely.
PEST CONTROL: Residents shall report the need for pest control to Owner in writing. Residents agree to cooperate with the pest control service and abide by guidelines given by the pest control service or Owner. State Codes may require notification of chemicals to be sprayed and days of services.
MOISTURE PREVENTION: Moisture problems must be prevented and treated immediately to prevent mold. Proper ventilation is essential for preventing mold. If you should have mold develop on windows, walls or ceilings, or a musty odor is present in the carpeting, report these conditions to Owner immediately. To prevent moisture buildup, utilize stove and bathroom vent fans and leave on until steam is gone. Condensation, which develops on windows from indoor moisture, must be wiped down immediately including the window tracks. Condensation on windows indicates that fresh air is not being circulated in the home to prevent moisture buildup. Open your windows and air out your home for short periods of time to keep fresh air present. Excessive running of your heater will cause condensation in your home. Report any running or dripping faucets, plumbing leaks, roof leaks, discoloration of walls or water intrusion immediately to the rental office.
Residents acknowledge receipt of the "Mold/Moisture Disclosure Statement".
SMOKING: If smoking is permitted in the Leased Premises or on the grounds of the Residential Community, Residents acknowledge that damage caused by smoking will not be considered ordinary wear and tear. Households having one or more smokers, or guests that smoke, will be held responsible for additional costs related to smoke related damages. Smoke related damages can be, but are not limited to, yellowed walls and ceilings; mini blinds and draperies, painting or treatment required due to smoke odor, burns to counters, sinks or extra cleaning of carpets due to smoking. Residents will be considerate of other residents by minimizing the patterns of smoke and/or smell which may be a sensitivity or allergy to other residents. Interference with other residents' rights to the quiet enjoyment of the premises as a result of second hand smoke may be grounds for termination of tenancy. Residents will comply with all local ordinances for smoking in common areas, Leased Premises and exposure to other residents.
STANDARDS: Residents shall keep the interior of the Leased Premises clean according to good housekeeping standards. This includes maintaining all utility services. Residents will assume full responsibility for keeping their patio, entry doors, entrance walkways, porches, patios and balconies area cleaned, neatly arranged and free from unsightly or unused items. Residents shall keep the Leased Premises and such other areas as may be assigned for Residents' exclusive use, including but not limited to, the Leased Premises fixtures, appliances, entry doors, windows and screens, sidewalks, parking space(s) and grounds, in a clean, safe and sanitary condition.
STORAGE: Garbage cans, bottles, brooms, mops, toys, bicycles, fitness equipment, cardboard boxes, household furniture, and similar personal property are to be kept inside the Leased Premises or appropriately designated storage areas and out of view. Patios and/or balconies are to be used for patio furniture only. Areas located outside front doors or on stairway landings are part of the common area and cannot be used for storage.
UNIVERSAL WASTE: Disposal of universal waste is prohibited in general trash receptacles in the Community. Disposal of universal waste in the trash receptacles by Residents may result in a fine for Owner, and therefore will be deemed a violation of the Residential Lease Contract. Universal waste includes electronic devices (televisions, computer monitors, computers, printers, VCRs, cell phones, telephones, radios and microwaves), common batteries (AA, AAA, C Cells, D cells and button batteries), Fluorescent Tubes and Bulbs and Other Mercury-Containing Lamps (fluorescent light tubes and bulbs, high intensity discharge (HID), metal halide, sodium and neon bulbs), Mercury added Novelties (greeting cards, athletic shoes and mercury maze games), Non-Empty Aerosol cans (aerosol cans can be flammable).
SECTION E: SUPERVISION HOUSEHOLD MEMBER/VISITORS/GUESTS
GUESTS: Guests staying in excess of 72 hoursosmCertifiedGuestHours MUST register with the office. Residents may be permitted to have 2oscdMaxGuestsPL guest(s) visit their household. However, any person(s) making REOCCURRING visits of ten (10)oscdGuestDaysInUnit consecutive days or fourteen (14)oscdGuestDaysInUnitTotal total days in any one (1)oscdGuestDaysInMonth month period shall be deemed to reside in the Leased Premises in violation of the
Residential Lease Contract. Persons receiving mail to the Leased Premises will be considered occupants. All adult household members must submit a completed application and qualify for residency.
SUPERVISION: Residents agree that Residents are responsible for the conduct of any member of their household, visitors and guests, and agree to pay for any damage to the Leased Premises caused by members of the household or guests.
WALKWAYS: Residents shall not store nor allow any personal household property outside the Leased Premises in a manner that may be detrimental to the appearance of the premises or interfere with free passage upon any street or sidewalk in the Leased Premises. Walkways are for pedestrian use. No bicycling, roller skating or in-line skating, skateboarding, coaster riding, drawing with chalk, etc., is allowed on walkways.
SECTION F: CONDUCT
ACTS OF VIOLENCE: Residents or members of the household or guests shall not engage in any acts of violence including but not limited to the display of, brandishing, or using in a threatening manner, any dangerous weapons or objects in or about the Leased Premises. Residents shall not keep or use on or about the Leased Premises or project any explosive, flammable, or repellent device, or otherwise dangerous device, and to take every care and precaution to prevent fires.
ALCOHOL/PUBLIC INTOXICATION: Residents shall not engage in, and Residents shall take reasonable action to prevent all members of Residents' household and guests from, drinking alcoholic beverages or using illegal substances in or on common areas, walkways or streets of the Community, or in vehicles parked or moving on the Community.
FIREARMS: Certain acts are considered to be contrary to the safety, well being, peace, and enjoyment of the other residents of the Residential Community, including, but not limited to, carrying or exhibiting firearms in common areas of the Residential Community (except as required by law or job necessity). Therefore, such acts are prohibited under this Addendum and the Residential Lease Contract. Furthermore, Residents, any member of their household, occupants, guests, invitees, or other persons under the control of Residents shall not unlawfully use or discharge firearms on or near the Leased Premises or common areas.
ILLEGAL ACTIVITY: Residents, any member of the Residents' household, or a guest or other person under the Residents' control shall not engage in illegal or criminal activity, nor in any act intended to facilitate illegal or criminal activity, including gang or drug-related illegal or criminal activity, on or near the premises. Residents, all members of the Residents' household and guests shall not engage in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of illegal drugs or be under the influence of any controlled or illegal substance at any location, whether on or near the premises or otherwise, nor permit the Leased Premises to be used for, or to facilitate, any illegal or criminal activity. While the usage of marijuana may have been legalized in many jurisdictions, for the purposes of this Lease and any Addenda thereto, the sale, manufacturing, purchasing, smoking, vaping, and aersolizing of marijuana is prohibited as if the same were an “illegal activity.” Any marijuana-related activity is similarly prohibited to the extent Owner may prohibit the same.
LOITERING: Residents, household members, or guests shall not loiter outside the Leased Premises, after 10:00 p.m.osmCertNoLoiteringAfter. Residents shall conduct themselves, and cause other persons who are on the Leased Premises with their consent to conduct themselves in a manner, which will be conducive to maintaining the Leased Premises in a decent, safe, and sanitary condition; and to promote the quiet enjoyment of the premises for all residents. Residents will not make, or cause to be made, or permit any disturbance or loud noises in or on the premises, street, or common areas.
NOISE: Residents, household members and guests shall not make or allow to be made any disturbing noises upon the Leased Premises by Residents, household members or guests, etc., nor permit anything to be done by such persons that will interfere with the rights, comforts, or convenience of other Residents. Residents, household members and guests are advised to take care when approaching and leaving their Leased Premises during the quiet time, between the hours of 10PM and 8AMquietHours and to show consideration of other residents at all times. Residents shall not play upon or allow to be played upon, any musical instrument or operate or allow to be operated audio equipment, radio, or television in or on the premises between the hours of 10PM and 8AMquietHours, if the same shall disturb or annoy other occupants of the Community.
THREATS/OFFENSIVE CONDUCT: To assist in ensuring the safety and quiet enjoyment of all Residents, household members and guests shall not engage in offensive conduct or language on or about the premises. Residents, all members of the Residents' household and guests shall not cause or threaten to cause serious physical injury to another person on the premises, or be involved in a fight while on the premises; commit abuse upon any person on the premises, and will abstain from any activity which impairs the physical or social environment of the premises.
SECTION G: VEHICLES
INOPERABLE VEHICLES: All vehicles must be currently registered, licensed and in operating condition. Any vehicle in violation of this provision may be towed at vehicle owner's expense in compliance with the vehicle codes of the state. Repair work, oil changes and similar work is not permitted in the parking lots. Such work must be done off the property. Residents agree that any vehicles that are inoperable for more than 72 consecutive hours without written permission of Owner may be removed at the expense of the vehicle's owner. Vehicles not moved in excess of 7 days will be considered inoperable. Extra vehicles cannot be stored on the property. Vehicle maintenance on the premises is prohibited. Residents and/or guests shall not park vehicles in a state of disrepair on the premises. This includes operational vehicles leaking on parking surfaces. Leaks and spills and/or damages caused by Residents' vehicles are the responsibility of Residents. The owner of any vehicle that leaks oil in the parking lot will be held responsible for clean-up and/or damage charges.
PARKING/SPEED LIMITS: Residents shall observe, and cause all members of Residents' household and guests to observe, the posted speed limits on drives in the premises, to park and cause members of Residents' household and guests to park only in assigned parking areas; not to block access to other parking spaces, garages or for emergency vehicles, or to other residences, and not drive, or park any vehicle on the lawn, driveway, or other areas for common use in the premises. Vehicles parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or in a fire lane may be towed without warning. Vehicles may not be backed into parking spaces. Vehicles which create a nuisance due to excessive music or activation of a car alarm shall be removed from the property at the vehicle owner's expense. Parking designated for the office is not to be used during operating business hours. Vehicles parked in designated handicapped spaces without display of handicap placard or handicap plates are subject to immediate towing. Some communities may require parking stickers for all cars parked on the premises. Cars without required parking stickers will be considered unauthorized and may be towed without warning. Residents agree that any vehicle that is improperly parked, or in violation of vehicle or parking policies without written permission of Owner may be removed at the expense of the vehicle's owner. Owner is the only authorized agent for the towing of vehicles. Owner, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to reassign any designated parking space(es) during the term of the Residential Lease Contract, subject to any applicable requirements under applicable fair housing laws.
UNASSIGNED PARKING: Communities with unassigned parking, the following applies: Parking is on a first come/first serve basis and a parking space is not guaranteed. Residents having more than one vehicle per household are requested to be considerate of other residents when parking second vehicles. Infrequently used vehicles (any vehicle not used or moved every 72 hours) are to be parked in more remote parking areas as designated by Owner. Additional vehicles (more than 2 per household) are to be parked off the premises.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES: Recreational vehicles such as trailers, motor homes and boats are not allowed to be parked
 
on the premises. Motorcycles are subject to the same rules as automobiles. They must be operated in a safe manner at all times. Motorcycles are considered vehicles and must be parked in an appropriately designated parking space. Motorcycles may not be parked on sidewalks, in stairwells, on patios, on porches or in any other area not designated for the parking of vehicles. No recreational vehicles, trailers or boats are allowed on the premises except with written consent of Owner.
VEHICLE REGISTRATION: Residents shall register all household vehicles with Owner. Residents agree to provide vehicle information (license number, make, model, etc.) and provide updated information in the event of changes. Vehicles on the premises must be currently registered and properly insured according to state law.
WASHING VEHICLES: Residents may wash or spray off vehicles only in designated areas of the premises. Residents will make every effort to not waste water if a designated area exists. Owner will advise Residents if a specific area exists on the property. If no designated area exists, Residents may not wash or spray off vehicles anywhere on the premises.
THESE COMMUNITY POLICIES NOW BECOME A PART OF YOUR RESIDENTIAL LEASE CONTRACT.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	24	 	
ADDITIONAL COMMUNITY POLICIES
This Addendum ("Addendum") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Addendum vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Addendum shall control.
Residents acknowledge and agree that the following provisions specified below will become a part of the Residential Lease Contract and will supersede any conflicting provisions listed in the Residential Lease Contract.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
	25	 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ON LEAD-BASED PAINT AND/OR LEAD-BASED PAINT HAZARDS
LEAD WARNING STATEMENT
Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint, paint chips, and dust can pose health hazards if not managed properly. Lead exposure is especially harmful to young children and pregnant women. Before renting housing built prior to 1978, lessors must disclose the presence of known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the dwelling. Lessees must also receive a copy of a federally approved pamphlet on lead poisoning prevention.
LESSOR'S DISCLOSURE
1.	Presence of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards:
	 	Lessor has no knowledge of lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing.
	 	Known lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards are present in the housing: __________________ .
2.	Records and reports available to the lessor:
	 	Lessor has no reports or records pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing.
  Lessor has provided the lessee with all available records and reports pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in the housing: __________________ .
LESSEE'S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Lessee has received copies of all information listed above, if any, and has received the pamphlet Protect Your Family from Lead in Your Home.
Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
AGENT'S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Agent has informed the lessor of the lessor's obligations under 42 U.S.C. § 4852d and is aware of his/her responsibility to ensure compliance.
Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Holly Smith } {263577} {} {yes}________
CERTIFICATION OF ACCURACY
The following parties have reviewed the information above and certify, to the best of their knowledge, that the information they have provided is true and accurate.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	36	 	
LEASE BUYOUT AGREEMENT
This Lease Buy-Out Agreement (this "Agreement") dated the 11th day of August, 2022, is hereby entered into by and between Owner of Jefferson West("Owner") and Angela Balzen ("Residents") in connection with the lease of the premises located at Jefferson West in 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Residential Lease Contract (the “Lease”).
This Agreement provides Residents an opportunity to buy out early from the Residential Lease Contract. Residents must comply with all provisions and conditions of this Agreement in order to terminate liability under the full length of the Residential Lease Contract.
WHEREAS the parties to this Agreement seek to terminate the Lease between Owner and all Residents;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the mutual covenants herein contained and other good and valuable considerations, the parties agree as follows:
1.	Lease Buy-Out Conditions.
a.	Notice. Residents must provide Owner with written notice of buy-out at least 60requiredBuyOutNoticeReq days prior to the Residents' intended termination/move-out date. This notice must be signed by all signatories to the Residential Lease Contract. Owner has the right to begin showing the Leased Premises to prospective residents upon receiving notice of the buy-out and termination date from Residents.
b.	Good Standing. Residents must not be in default under the Residential Lease Contract on the date Residents provide notice to Owner about the buy-out, or through the intended termination/move-out date. Residents must also be current for all rent payments and all other amounts due and owing under the terms of the Residential Lease Contract through the termination/move-out date.
c.	Move Out.	Residents must vacate the Leased Premises on or before the intended termination/move-out date.
d.	Consideration. In consideration for early termination of the Residential Lease Contract, Residents must pay Owner a buy-out fee of $1,912.50. Owner must receive the buy-out fee no later than 60requiredBuyOutPaymentReq days after notice to buy-out is provided by Residents. Residents are also liable to Owner for the total dollar amount of any concessions received upon signing or during the term of the Residential Lease Contract and any other monetary obligations due. No refund of the buy-out fee is due to Residents regardless of when the unit is re-rented.
2.	Owner's deposit of the amounts detailed above constitutes Owner's acceptance of the intended termination/move-out date contained in Residents' buy-out notice. The buy-out will automatically be voided if Residents fail to comply with all the provisions and conditions of this Agreement or the Residential Lease Contract, or if Residents make any false statements or provide false documentation to Owner. If the buy-out is voided (1) the Residential Lease Contract will continue through its full term; (2) Residents will be subject to all available remedies under the Residential Lease Contract; and (3) any amounts paid by Resident for the buy-out will become part of Residents' security deposit.
3.	Residents are not permitted to hold over after the intended termination/move-out provided on the buy-out notice. Residents should contact the Owner about any anticipated problems with moving out by or before the intended termination/move-out date from the buy-out notice. Any extension to the intended termination/move-out date will only be effective if agreed to and signed by all parties in writing.
4.	Residents' opportunity to buy-out is not limited to certain situations. If limited, Residents may only exercise the buy-out opportunity in the situations described below or with written approval by Owner. In the event that any terms and conditions contained in the situations below conflict with provisions or conditions described above, the terms and conditions described below will control. Permissible buy-out situations include: N/A.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	37	 	
MOLD ADDENDUM
This Addendum ("Addendum") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Addendum vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Addendum shall control.
Owner has inspected the Leased Premises prior to Residents' occupancy, and Owner knows of no damp or wet building materials and knows of no mold or mildew contamination. Residents are hereby notified that mold, however, can grow if the Leased Premises are not properly maintained or ventilated. If moisture is allowed to accumulate in the Leased Premises, it can cause mold and mildew growth. There are no established guidelines for unacceptable air quality caused by mold. Mold is a naturally occurring phenomenon. Mold and/or mildew should be cleaned as soon as it appears. Mold and/or mildew growth can often be seen in the form of discoloration. The different colors of mold range from white to black, including, but not limited to, green, gray, brown, orange, yellow and other colors.
Residents agree to maintain the Leased Premises in a manner that prevents the occurrence of mold or mildew growth within the Leased Premises. In furtherance of such obligation, Residents agree to perform the following:
1.	Keep the Leased Premises free from moisture, dirt and debris that can harbor mold.
2.	Inspect the Leased Premises regularly for the indications and sources of indoor moisture.
3.	Immediately notify Owner, in writing of any discoloration evidenced on walls, floors, or ceiling and/or any water intrusion, such as roof leaks, window leaks, plumbing leaks, drips, flooding, or "sweating" walls or pipes.
4.	Immediately notify Owner, in writing, of overflows from bathroom, kitchen or any other water source facilities, especially in cases where the overflow may have permeated walls, flooring or cabinets.
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	38	 	
5.	Immediately notify Owner, in writing, of the presence of any mold growth on surfaces inside the Leased Premises.
6.	Allow Owner to enter the Leased Premises to inspect and make necessary repairs, in the event mold or water intrusion is present.
7.	Utilize bathroom fans while showering or bathing, and notify Owner of any nonworking fans.
8.	Utilize stove hood vents/exhaust fans whenever cooking, dishwashing, or cleaning.
9.	Use all reasonable care to close all windows and other openings in the Leased Premises to prevent outdoor water from penetrating into the interior of the Leased Premises.
10.	Clean and dry any visible condensation/moisture on windows and window tracks, walls, and any other surfaces, including personal property, as soon as reasonably possible.
11.	Notify Owner of any problems with air conditioning or heating systems that are discovered by Residents.
NOTE: Mold can grow on damp surfaces within 24 to 48 hours. Condensation on windows indicates that fresh air is not being circulated in the Leased Premises. To prevent condensation/moisture buildup, open windows and air out the Leased Premises for short periods of time to keep fresh air present. Maximize the circulation of air by keeping furniture away from walls and out of corners. Residents may add a little dish soap to the water mixture to cut any dirt and oil on the surface that Residents are cleaning that may contain mold. Do not add other cleaning chemicals, especially ammonia. Dispose of any rags or sponges used to clean the mold in a sealed bag.
Residents agree to indemnify and hold harmless Owner and Owner's Agent from any suits, actions, claims, losses, damages, and expenses and any liability whatsoever that Owner and/or Owner's Agent may sustain or incur as a result of Residents' failure to comply or perform with the obligations set forth above or as the result of intentional or negligent action or failure to act on the part of Residents or any other person living in, occupying, or using the Leased Premises, except if the liability is based upon a negligent act or omission of Owner and/or Owner's Agent.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
MOVE-IN - PRE-MOVE-OUT - MOVE-OUT INSPECTION FORM
Community Name: Jefferson West Resident's Name: Angela Balzen
Resident's Address: 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702
LIVING ROOM	LIVING ROOM	LIVING ROOM		LIVING ROOM	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floor/Carpet							
Fireplace							
Lights							
Window/Screens							
Paint/Walls							
Other							
DINING ROOM	DINING ROOM	DINING ROOM		DINING ROOM	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floor/Carpet							
Lights							
Windows/Screens							
Paint/Walls							
Other							
ENTRY & HALL	ENTRY & HALL	ENTRY & HALL		ENTRY & HALL	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floor/Carpet							
Lights							
Windows/Screens							
Paint Walls							
Other							
KITCHEN	KITCHEN	KITCHEN		KITCHEN	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floor/Carpet							
Cabinets							
Range Top/Oven							
Hood, Filter, Fan							
Refrigerator							
Dishwasher							
Microwave							
Lights							
Sink							
Counters							
Pantry Doors							
Windows/Screens							
Paint/Walls							
Other							
BATHROOMS	Bath 1	Bath 2		Bath 1	Bath 2			Bath 1	Bath 2		
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floors											
Cabinets											
Sink/Vanity/Mirror											
Tub/Shower											
Toilet											
Lights											
Windows/Screens											
Paint/Walls											
Other											
Resident Initials	Move In	Pre-Move out		Move Out	

BEDROOMS	Brdm 1	Brdm 2		Brdm 1	Brdm 2			Brdm 1	Brdm 2		
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floors/Carpet											
Lights											
Windows/Screens											
Closets/Doors											
Paint/Walls											
Other											
BEDROOMS	Brdm 3	Brdm 4		Brdm 3	Brdm 4			Brdm 3	Brdm 4		
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Floors/Carpet											
Lights											
Windows/Screens											
Closets/Doors											
Paint/Walls											
Other											
LAUNDRY	LAUNDRY	LAUNDRY		LAUNDRY	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Washer/Dryer							
Floors							
OTHER	OTHER	OTHER		OTHER	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Smoke/Carbon
Detectors							
Alarms							
Locks							
Window Coverings							
Other							
PATIO/BALCONIES	PATIO/BALCONIES	PATIO/BALCONIES		PATIO/BALCONIES	
Room / Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Walls							
Floors							
Other							
PARKING/STORAGE	PARKING/STORAGE	PARKING/STORAGE		PARKING/STORAGE	
Item	Move In Condition is Clean, No damage except as noted	Pre-Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge	Move Out Condition	Cleaning Charge	Damage Charge
Garage/Parking
Space							
Doors							
Walls							
Other							
Resident Initial	Move In	Pre-Move Out		Move Out	
KEYS/REMOTE	KEYS/REMOTE		KEYS/REMOTE	
Key FOB	# Issued	# Received		
Garage Remote	# Issued	# Received		
Keys	# Issued	# Received		
Move In Comments:
 
 
 
 
Pre-Move Out Comments:
 
 
 
 
Move Out Comments:
 
 
 
 
By signing below, Residents acknowledge that Residents have inspected the Leased Premises, and that all items within the Leased Premises will be assumed to be in good condition unless otherwise noted on this form. Furthermore, Residents acknowledge that no signs of bedbugs or other pests are present, and that the Leased Premises are in a decent, safe and sanitary condition. Residents hereby accept this form as part of the Residential Lease Contract and agree that it accurately reflects the condition and cleanliness of or existing damages to the Leased Premises. This form is not deemed received by Owner unless it is signed by Owner or an authorized agent of Owner.
***SIGN HERE*** { } {} {} {}	***SIGN HERE*** { } {} {} {}
 
(Resident)	Date	(Owner/Agent)	Date
 
RESIDENT CONTACT INFORMATION
ADDRESS:	LEASE PREMISES #:
470 North 29th Boise, ID83702	232
RESIDENT:
Angela Balzen	
PREFERRED METHOD OF CONTACT:
  Telephone	  Email	  Text	
E-MAIL ADDRESS: angiebalzen@gmail.com	
DAY TIME CONTACT NUMBER:
(208) 761-0193	EVENING TIME CONTACT NUMBER:
EMERGENCY CONTACT	
EMERGENCY NAME:	CONTACT NUMBER:
Keven BalzentenantEmergencyName	(208) 901-8550tenantEmergencyPhone
EMERGENCY NAME:	CONTACT NUMBER:
tenantEmergencyName2	tenantEmergencyPhone2
It is imperative that whenever you make a change to your contact information that you let us know so that we can update our records. Thank you for your cooperation.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	42	 	
RESTRICTED ANIMAL/BREED LIST
This Policy ("Policy") is made part of the Residential Lease Contract ("Agreement") dated August 11, 2022, and is between the Owner of Jefferson West ("Owner") and Angela Balzen, (collectively and individually "Residents"), for the premises at 470 North 29th #232, Boise, ID 83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within Jefferson West (the "Residential Community"). All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement. Where the terms and conditions of this Policy vary or conflict with the terms and conditions of the Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Policy shall control.
1.	DOG BREEDS: Restricted breeds that may not visit or be maintained in the Leased Premises include, but are not limited to, the following: Pit Bulls Rottweilers   Presa Canario   German Shepherds   Huskies   Malamutes
  Dobermans Chowchows St. Bernard?s   Great Danes Akitas Terriers (Staffordshire)   American Bull Dog   Karelian Bear Dog   Any hybrid or mixed breed of one of the aforementioned breeds
2.	POISONOUS ANIMALS:	Restricted animals that may not visit or be maintained in the Leased Premises include, but are not limited to, the following:   Tarantulas	  Piranhas
3.	EXOTIC ANIMALS: Restricted animals that may not visit or be maintained in the Leased Premises include, but are not limited to, the following:   Reptiles (snakes, iguanas)   Ferrets   Skunks   Raccoons   Squirrels   Rabbits  
Birds (parrots, cockatiels, macaws)
NOTE: SERVICE/COMPANION ANIMALS MAY NOT BE SUBJECT TO THIS LIST
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Policy as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
	43	 
ROOMMATE ADDENDUM
("Owner") and Angela Balzen
	ID	83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within
Residents, who have roommate(s) occupying the Leased Premises acknowledge the following covenants and conditions as a part of their Residential Lease Contract:
1.	Occupancy. All roommates will be considered Residents and must be approved by Owner prior to occupancy. The number of occupants in the Leased Premises cannot exceed those allowed by applicable law and the guidelines for occupancy enforced throughout the Residential Community.
2.	Financial Responsibility. Each Resident is jointly and severally responsible for payment of rent in full on the 1st day of each month. Any portion of unpaid rent not received by Owner before the 4th day of the month will be considered late and applicable late fees as outlined in the Residential Lease Contract will be assessed. Non-payment of rent due in full will result in termination of the Residential Lease Contract as allowed by law.
3.	Refund of Security Deposit. The Security Deposit shall be retained by the Owner until such time that the Lease Premises has been vacated by all Residents. The Security Deposit will be refunded in accordance with the Residential Lease Contract and applicable laws.
4.	Conduct.	All roommates are responsible for the conduct of one another. Violation of the Residential Lease Contract by one roommate may result in the allowable termination of the Residential Lease Contract as provided by applicable law.
5.	New Roommate. Upon a change of a roommate, Residents are responsible for executing a Change of Resident Agreement and submitting required Rental Applications for Owner approval. Upon a change of roommate, the remaining Residents are responsible for the transfer of all keys and any applicable Security Deposit. If a change of roommate occurs without the execution of a Change of Resident Agreement, all original Residents will be responsible for the terms of the Residential Lease Contract. Any roommate not approved for occupancy will be considered an illegal occupant and whose presence will be grounds for lease termination.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
	44	 
 
SMOKE-FREE ADDENDUM
("Owner") and Angela Balzen
	ID	83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within
Residents and Owner acknowledge that smoking negatively effects the health of the community at large and contributes to an increased risk of fire and maintenance and cleaning costs of the Leased Premises. In order to help minimize these issues, Residents and Owner agree to the following terms:
1.	Definition of Smoking: "Smoking" means inhaling, exhaling, breathing, or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, vapor smoking product, or other tobacco product or similar lighted product, including marijuana, in any manner or in any form. There shall be no smoking inside the Leased Premises or outside the Leased Premises except in the Designated smoking areas as determined by Owner from time to time (and communicated in writing to Residents).
2.	Smoke-Free Areas: Residents, Occupants, guests, or other individuals may not smoke anywhere in the designated smoke-free areas.
3.	Compliance. Residents must comply with the terms and provisions of this Addendum and inform all Occupants and guests of the Smoke-Free Areas. Residents shall promptly provide written notice to Owner of any incident of smoking or migrating secondhand smoke into the Leased Premises.
4.	Disclaimer by Owner. Owner's adoption and enforcement of Smoke-Free Areas is not a warranty or guarantee of the Residents' health, habitability, or smoke-free condition of the Leased Premises or other Smoke-Free Areas. Owner will take reasonable steps to enforce Smoke-Free Areas, however Owner is not required to take any steps unless Owner has actual knowledge or has received written notice about violations to the Smoke-Free Areas policy.
5.	Effect of Breach: Residents agree that the provisions, obligations, and conditions of this Addendum are reasonable and material and that a breach by Resident of any such provision, obligation, or condition constitutes a material breach thereof and may be grounds for immediate termination of the Residential Lease Contract by Owner.
6.	Complaint Policy: Complaints must be submitted in writing to Owner. Owner shall take the following actions upon receipt: 1) place a courtesy call to the resident that is smoking; 2) send a letter to the resident confirming the no smoking policy; 3) send a notice to perform or quit to the resident for repeated violations of the no smoking policy; and 4) if the resident fails to comply with the no smoking policy, Owner reserves the right to terminate the Residential Lease Contract.
Violations of Owner's smoke-free policies will be considered grounds to terminate the Residential Lease Contract to the extent permitted by applicable law.
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	45	 	
UTILITIES ADDENDUM
("Owner") and Angela Balzen
	ID	83702 (the "Leased Premises"), which is located within
1.	Conservation. When utility bills are paid 100 percent by Owner, Residents have no incentive to conserve. This results in a waste of our state's natural resources and adds to the overhead of the property and that usually means higher rents. Utility billing saves money for Residents because it encourages them to conserve. We as Owner also have incentive to conserve because we pay a portion of the total utility bill(s) for the entire property.
2.	Repairs. Owner agrees to use its best efforts to repair any water and sewer leaks inside or outside the Leased Premises no later than seven (7) days after receiving written notice from Residents. Reporting water and sewer leaks inside the Leased Premises is the responsibility of Residents. Water and sewer leaks may impact the monthly water and sewer utility costs and must be reported to Owner immediately.
3.	Residents' Responsibilities. Residents are responsible for the payment of utilities and the billing method of metering or otherwise measuring the cost of the utility, as specified herein:
A. Water service to the Leased Premises will be paid by Residents as follows:
 
1.	Sub metering of all applicable utilities listed in Section 3.
2.	Calculation of your total water use based on sub-metering of cold water.
3.	Calculation of your total water use based on sub-metering of hot water.
4.	Flat rate per month.
5.	Allocation based on number of occupants residing in the Leased Premises.
6.	Allocation based on the number of persons residing in the Leased Premises using a ratio occupancy formula:
	Number of Occupants	Occupancy Factor
1	1
2	1.6
3	1.9
4	2.2
5	2.5
6	2.8
7.	Allocation based on square footage of the Leased Premises.
8.	Allocation based on a combination of square footage of the Leased Premises and the number of occupants residing in the Leased Premises.
9.	Allocation based on the number of bedrooms in the Leased Premises.
 
4.	Billing Entity. For and in consideration of this section, the billing entity and payment location from which Residents shall receive monthly utility bills and as designated by Owner is: TableRock Residential, 800 W. Main St., Suite 1410, and Boise, ID 83702certUtilityBillAddress. Payment location: Payment to be included with regular rent payment whether via check or online payment through the resident portal and should be made to the apartment community directly.certUtilityPayLocation.
5.	Other Charges. Residents hereby understand and agree to pay a monthly service charge of $5.00utilityMonthlyChargeStd and other administrative fees as billed by the billing entity, which may be added to the Residents' utility bill. Additional fees include new account initialization charge of $5.00osmCertUtilityNewAccountFee a final move-out bill fee of $5.00osmCertUtilityFinalBillFee and a vacancy cost recovery fee of $50.00osmCertVacantCostRecovFeeUtil.
6.	Returned Checks. Owner and Residents agree that the actual cost to Owner or Billing Provider when Residents pay the utility bill by a check or credit card which is subsequently dishonored by the financial institution, is difficult or impossible to ascertain, but the parties do agree that Owner or Billing Provider does, in the event of a dishonored payment, incur certain costs, such as additional bookkeeping and administrative charges, bank charges, lost opportunity costs of the missed payment, etc. The parties accordingly agree that Residents will pay a $50.00stdUtilityNSFFee processing fee for each payment submitted by Residents that are returned by the financial institution for any reason, including insufficient funds and closed account. If a payment submitted by Residents is in fact returned, Owner reserves the right to require that all future payments by Residents be tendered by Certified Check or Money Order. The return payment processing fee shall be added to any utility bill in addition to the foregoing late charges for payments returned due to insufficient funds.
7.	Payments. Payments received will be applied to outstanding balances first. To the extent provided by law, any unpaid utility service and related charges for utilities at the time of move out from or transfer within the property may, at discretion of the Owner, be deducted from the security deposit being held by Owner.
8.	Failure to Pay. It is understood and agreed between the Owner and Residents that, in the event that payment is not made when due, it shall be considered a default for non-payment of rent under the Residential Lease Contract. Residents agree that the Owner may bring summary proceedings for eviction as if rent were not paid. When Residents move from the property, the water, sewer and trash charges must be paid through the move-out date. Final bill will be estimated and due as of the move out date.
9.	Change of Terms. During the lease term or any renewal period, Owner is authorized to bill Residents for, and Residents hereby agree to pay, a portion of the monthly bills for the utilities for the Residential Community as stated above. Owner shall give Residents at least thirty (30) days written notice before requiring Residents to commence paying for any change, including but not limited to change in billing entities, methodology, service charges, or other conditions in the manner or method of allocation of utility costs.
10.	Collection Agency. Residents acknowledge that Owner may turn over Residents' account to a collection agency in the event that Residents fail to pay utility bills on time, and in such event, Residents agree to pay the service fees that are charged to the Owner by the utility billing provider or collection agency for collection activities.
11.	Limitation of Liability. Owner shall not be liable for any losses or damages that result from outages, interruptions, or fluctuations in utilities provided to the Leased Premises, unless such loss or damage was the direct result of the willful conduct or gross negligence of Owner or Owner's agents relating to such outages, interruptions or fluctuations. Residents hereby waive any and all claims for offset, rent reduction or diminished value of the Leased Premises due to such outages, interruptions or fluctuations.
12.	Billing Method. Allocation formulas will calculate your allocated share of the utility services in accordance with state and local laws. Allocation billing will be adjusted with adjustments in usage and billing rates.
 
In the event of a conflict between any provision in this Special Provision section and this Addendum or the Agreement, the provision in this Special Provision section shall control.
• You may send utility payments with your monthly rent payment through the mail or log onto the resident portal and make payments for rent, utilities, and/or any other charges. Vacancy cost recovery refers to Idaho Power bills for electricity that are not properly transferred into the resident's name during a period of their tenancy. If an electric bill is received for a service period that coincides with the resident's tenancy that bill will be paid by owner, charged back to the resident, and also incur a $50 vacant cost recovery fee per occurrence. and I do hereby agree and authorize Idaho Power and Intermountain Gas (both as applicable to the community) to release information (including, but not limited to, electric use, irrigation information, gas use, credit information and services/location) associated with any residential customer accounts I have setup with them to representatives of
TableRock Residential.oscdSpecialProvisions
INTENDING TO BE BOUND, the parties hereto have executed this Addendum as of the day and year first above written.
 
Angela Balzen (Resident)	Date	Holly Smith (Owner/Agent)	Date
 	Initial: ***SIGN HERE*** { Angela Balzen } {} {140127679} {yes}________
	48	 	
 

